Two Birds, One STONE PANDA Introduction In April 2017, a previously unknown group calling itself IntrusionTruth began releasing blog posts detailing individuals believed to be associated with major Chinese intrusion campaigns. Although the group’s exact motives remain unclear, its initial tranche of information exposed individuals connected to long-running GOTHIC PANDA (APT3) operations, culminating in a connection to the Chinese firm Boyusec (博御信息) and, ultimately, Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS) entities in Guangzhou. Recently, in July and August 2018, IntrusionTruth has returned with new reporting regarding actors with ties to historic STONE PANDA (APT10) activity and has ultimately associated them with the MSS Tianjin Bureau (天津市国家安全局). Though CrowdStrike® Falcon Intelligence™ is currently unable to confirm all of the details provided in these most recent posts with a high degree of confidence, several key pieces of information can be verified. Several of the named individuals have been active registering domains as recently as June 2018, and they responded to the IntrusionTruth blog posts by scrubbing their social media or by following IntrusionTruth’s Twitter account. Named individuals ZHANG Shilong and GAO Qiang have significant connections to known Chinese hacking forums, and they have sourced tools currently in use by China-based cyber adversaries. ZHANG has registered several sites with overlapping registrant details that show both his affiliation with several physical technology firm addresses as well as his residence in Tianjin. Named firm Huaying Haitai has been connected to a Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) sponsored attack and defense competition; this is similar to GOTHIC PANDA’s ties to an active defense lab sponsored by China Information Technology Evaluation Center (CNITSEC). Huaying Haitai has previously hired Chinese students with Japanese language skills; this is significant, as STONE PANDA has engaged in several campaigns targeting Japanese firms. The MSS Tianjin Bureau is confirmed to be located at the described address, not far from many of the registrant addresses listed by ZHANG as well the firms GAO was likely recruiting for. More details that may further illuminate these findings and provide a higher confidence in connecting STONE PANDA to the MSS Tianjin Bureau are likely to emerge. Background Throughout May 2017, using a variety of historical information and open-source intelligence (OSINT), IntrusionTruth released several blog posts identifying several individuals connected to Boyusec. Though CrowdStrike Intelligence had suspected GOTHIC PANDA was an MSS contractor for several years, the IntrusionTruth posts and subsequent research by RecordedFuture into MSS ties to the China Information Technology Evaluation Center (CNITSEC/中国信息安全测评中心) corroborated additional details from various sources and provided a higher degree of confidence. Confidence in these findings was further boosted when the U.S. Department of Justice named Boyusec and several of the described individuals in an indictment, and detailed GOTHIC PANDA tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) in detail. CrowdStrike Falcon Intelligence was able to independently verify the majority of this information and concluded that not only is CNITSEC associated with the MSS, but its former director WU Shizhong (吴世忠) was simultaneously dual-hatted as the director of the MSS Technology/13th Bureau (国家安全部科技局局长)1 2 3, implying that the MSS plays a crucial role in China’s code review of foreign products and is now able to cherry pick high-value vulnerabilities from its own capable domestic bug hunting teams. CNITSEC’s role in code review for foreign entities has led to its access to Microsoft’s source code dating back to 2003 and the use by KRYPTONITE PANDA of a high-value vulnerability (CVE-2018-0802), discovered by Chinese firm Qihoo 360, a month before it was publicly revealed. WU Shizhong Presenting on the “Digital Silk Road” at the Second Wuzhen World Internet Conference in 2015 As research into the IntrusionTruth leads on STONE PANDA continues, Falcon Intelligence has already observed some consistencies with known MSS operations. Sinking Like a STONE  GAO Qiang (高/郜 强) Many of the personal details for GAO were scrubbed shortly after IntrusionTruth’s post introducing him went live, including his Tencent QQ account. The blog connects him to the moniker fisherxp via an initial spear-phishing campaign from 2010 previously attributed to STONE PANDA. Multiple sites with profile pictures appear to show the owner of the fisherxp accounts, though this has yet to be independently confirmed as GAO. Fisherxp’s QQ shows his alternate username as 肥猪 or “big porker”. IntrusionTruth later links GAO to several documented Uber rides to the MSS Tianjin Bureau’s office address where both his first name, Qiang/强, and 猪 are used by the app to identify him and tie him to the QQ number 420192. CrowdStrike cannot confirm the validity of these Uber receipts at this time. However, fisherxp’s account on popular Chinese technology forum 51CTO is still active and shows that he has downloaded not only the open-source DarkComet RAT and numerous password cracking tools, but more importantly, several favorite tools used by a plethora of known Chinese cyber adversaries including Gh0st RAT 3.6, zxarps (an ARP-spoofing tool by legacy hacker LZX), and lcx.exe (a port-forwarding tool by legacy hacker LCX)4. ZHANG Shilong (张世龙) ZHANG was originally introduced by IntrusionTruth as a reciprocal follower of fisherxp’s Twitter account via his own @baobeilong account. Baobeilong (宝贝龙/”Baby Dragon”) also maintained a GitHub account that had forked both the Quasar and Trochilus RATs, two open-source tools historically used by STONE PANDA, but the account has since been scrubbed. This information was verified by CrowdStrike before being removed completely. Falcon Intelligence recently independently conducted detailed analysis of the RedLeaves malware used to target numerous Japanese defense groups and found it was directly sourced from Trochilus code, but it has undergone several evolutions and contains prefixes suggesting it could also be used to target Russia and the DPRK. There is no conclusive evidence at this time that RedLeaves is solely attributed to STONE PANDA. Baobeilong did maintain a Flickr account with numerous pictures that proved key in identifying his location later, similar to how cpyy’s photos helped identify his affiliation to the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in CrowdStrike’s PUTTER PANDA report. IntrusionTruth then drew connections from baobeilong’s other online accounts to registrant details for xiaohong[.]org, which dated back to 2007 and revealed ZHANG’s full name—ZHANG Shilong. From there, a trail of overlapping registrant details reveals ZHANG’s hanzi characters for his name (张世龙), likely one of his personal home addresses, potential work addresses and several email addresses: long@xiaohong[.]org baobei@xiaohong[.]org atreexp@yahoo[.]com.cn robin4700@foxmail[.]com eshilong@vip.qq[.]com Specifically tracing registrant details from atreexp → robin4700 → eshilong shows that ZHANG was active registering sites as recently as June 5, 2018, including a personal blog where his picture and name features prominently along with several technology-related blog posts. A picture from baobeilong’s Flickr account shows a fire at the Tianjin Medical Center 120 Laoying Baichen Instruments The original blog post on GAO lists his contact information in recruitment postings for two separate companies, one of which is Laoying Baichen Instruments (characters unknown at the time of this writing). No records could be found for such a firm, however, IntrusionTruth lists the address associated with it as Room 1102, Guanfu Mansion, 46 Xinkai Road, Hedong District, Tianjin (天津市河东区新开路46号冠福大厦1102). During the course of investigating Laoying and the Guanfu mansion, Falcon Intelligence noticed that the Guanfu Mansion is also the registered address of a firm called Tianjin Henglide Technology Co., Ltd. (恒利德天津科技有限公司), which is listed as one of only a few “review centers” certified by CNITSEC in Tianjin5. Laoying and Henglide are listed as being on different floors, however having a CNITSEC review center in the same building is noteworthy given CNITSEC’s connection to MSS and previous linkage to Boyusec/GOTHIC PANDA. Zhang is believed to have taken the photo of the fire from the Wanchan Meizhuan Mansion. This is relatively close to both the Yuyang Complex (one of Zhang’s listed registrant addresses) and the Guanfu Mansion, Laoying Baichen’s listed address. Tianjin Huaying Haitai Science and Technology Development Company The other firm GAO appears to have been recruiting for is Huaying Haitai (天津华盈海泰科技发展有限公司). As the IntrusionTruth blog post mentions, it is a registered firm with two listed representatives, Fang Ting (方亭) and Sun Lei (孙杰), and a listed address of 1906 Fuyu Mansion (天津市河西区解放南路中段西侧富裕大厦1-1906). Searches for more information on Huaying Haitai turned up two interesting government documents. One is a recruitment Excel sheet detailing recent graduates, their majors and their new employers and addresses. Huaying Haitai is listed as having hired a recently graduated female student from Nankai University in 2013 who majored in Japanese. This is interesting considering STONE PANDA’s extensive targeting of Japanese defense firms after this time period, but it is by no means conclusive evidence that the firm is connected to STONE PANDA. The second government document lists Huaying Haitai as the co-organizer of a Network Security Attack and Defense competition with the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology’s (MIIT) national training entity, NSACE6. It was open for all students of Henan Province. NSACE appears to be a national education body that teaches network information security, including offensive activity7. This information is particularly interesting given Boyusec’s previous work at CNITSEC’s Guangdong subsidiary setting up a joint active defense lab8.  It suggests that these technology firms act as both shell companies and recruitment grounds for potential MSS use in cyber operations. MSS Tianjin Bureau The most recent IntrusionTruth post assesses that GAO’s Uber rides frequently took him from Huaying’s address at the Fuyu Mansion to 85 Zhujiang Road (珠江道85号). When observed closely, the compound is a striking one complete with towers, a fenced perimeter with surveillance cameras, guarded entrances, and a building with a significant number of satellite dishes. There are no markers on the building and no government listed address; however, it is apparently difficult for locals to determine where the Tianjin Bureau’s location is as well. There are several Baidu questions asking what transportation routes are best to get to that specific address. Three separate ones specifically mention the 85 Zhujiang Road address as the headquarters for the MSS’s Tianjin Bureau and the difficulty in finding its location9 10 11. As with most cyber-enabled operations, satellite arrays are often indicative of installations with significant signals intelligence (SIGINT) capabilities. The Tianjin Bureau appears to have the potential for such capabilities, housing several large arrays that appear to have existed since at least January 2004. Barely visible satellite dishes from the street view of 85 Zhujiang Road outside the compound Conclusion There are still significant intelligence gaps that prevent Falcon Intelligence from making an assessment about STONE PANDA’s potential connections to the MSS Tianjin Bureau with a high degree of confidence. However, additional information is likely to materialize either directly from IntrusionTruth or from other firms in the infosec community who are undoubtedly looking at this material as well and may have unique insight of their own. Ultimately, IntrusionTruth’s prior releases on GOTHIC PANDA proved accurate and led to a U.S. Department of Justice indictment resulting in the dismantling of Boyusec. From their latest post, which contains GAO’s Uber receipts, it is clear the group’s information likely goes beyond merely available OSINT data. It cannot be ignored that there are striking similarities between the entities associated with GOTHIC PANDA and the actors and firms mentioned in the blogs about STONE PANDA. In addition, FalconIntelligence notes that following the late 2015 Sino-U.S. brief cyber detente, much of the responsibility for western cyber intrusion operations was handed to the MSS as the PLA underwent an extensive reform that is still currently underway, and which is consolidating its military cyber forces under the Strategic Support Force. Though the detente saw an initial drop in Chinese intrusion activity, it has steadily been increasing over the past several years, with a majority of the intrusions into western firms being conducted by suspected contractors. These adversaries are tracked by CrowdStrike as GOTHIC PANDA, STONE PANDA, WICKED PANDA, JUDGMENT PANDA, and KRYPTONITE PANDA. Many of these adversaries have begun targeting supply chain and upstream providers to establish a potential platform for future operations and enable the collection of larger sets of data. While the APT1, PUTTER PANDA, and Operation CameraShy reports all exposed PLA units at a time when Chinese military hacking against western firms was rampant, the attention has now swung toward identifying MSS contractors. The exposure of STONE PANDA as an MSS contractor would be another blow to China’s current cyber operations given STONE PANDA’s prolific targeting of a variety of sectors, and may prompt an additional U.S. investigation at a tenuous time for Sino-U.S. relations during an ongoing trade war. However, it is important to note that such public revelations often force these actors to cease operations, improve their operational security (OPSEC), and then return stronger than before. As such, CrowdStrike Falcon Intelligence assesses that although Boyusec may have shuttered, elements of GOTHIC PANDA are likely to still be active. The same is likely to be true for STONE PANDA following a period of silence. The activities of STONE PANDA impact entities in the Aerospace & Defense, Government,  Healthcare, Technology,  Telecommunications Services of several nations.
The CrowdStrike Intelligence Team’s primary focus is to track adversaries associated with nation-state actors and monitor their activity. Typically one never wants to disclose one’s amassed intelligence in a way that may compromise the ability to collect more intelligence; this is clearly a losing game. However, occasionally the release of some intelligence is required or beneficial, and the loss of the intelligence collection capability is outweighed by the perceived benefit of the release. This is often characterized as ‘Intelligence Gain/Loss’ by intelligence professionals, and it is often a hotly debated calculus. I’ll outline the current CrowdStrike position on IGL related to intelligence disclosure. (Spoiler alert: There will be a disclosure after that.) Intelligence Gain/Loss It has become apparent in recent months, as cyber intelligence comes to the forefront of the national and community dialogs, that we have a few problems in the way we discuss and disseminate cyber intelligence information. One of the biggest points of confusion for people is the nomenclature that we use to describe adversaries and malware. At CrowdStrike we believe firmly in focusing on the adversary. What adversary, you may ask? Well, that’s where all this is going. Some in the community refer to the adversary by the malware detection name from a specific anti-virus vendor, e.g. Hydraq. This is sometimes useful, but when the adversary is using a malware that is detected as Generic.Downloader.234, you have a much harder time communicating. Additionally, every A/V vendor uses different names, so one might have Generic.Downloader.234 and another might have Downloader.863, which makes it difficult to share intelligence with groups that don’t use the same A/V as you. Adversaries use multiple malware packages during their attacks, and once they gain access to the victim enterprise, they use a whole other set of tools and utilities to accomplish their objectives. This is where we start categorizing adversaries by their Tools and Techniques, which is the right approach but multiple names have emerged and are inconsistently used by the community. As an example, we all know Comment Crew, A/K/A Comment Team, A/K/A APT-1, A/K/A Comment, etc, etc. This is where we are going to run into problems – we are starting to develop the same naming schemes as A/V, which will eventually lead to confusion. To attempt to help the community avert the naming dilemma, we are sharing with the research community the CrowdStrike cryptonyms for some of the more prolific and active adversaries. In addition to helping ensure we all know who these adversaries are and when they are active, we are sharing some signatures that will help identify them on the enterprises they frequent. Gain ​Common and unambiguous nomenclature to help the community discuss these adversaries Ability to detect these adversaries on the wire More visibility to the problem of targeted attack aimed at stealing intellectual property and opportunity from governments, businesses, human rights activists, and non-profit groups The adversary has to change tactics, techniques, and practices which raises the cost of their espionage tradecraft Loss Momentary loss of visibility on the adversary We have to work hard to stay on the adversary and generate more intelligence The choice for us is clear – the Gain outweighs the Loss. Meet Anchor Panda We presented this information at the RSA conference several weeks ago in a presentation called ‘Hacking Exposed: PLA(N) Edition’. This is an adversary that CrowdStrike has tracked extensively over the last year targeting both civilian and military maritime operations in the green/brown water regions primarily in the area of operations of the South Sea Fleet of the PLA Navy. In addition to maritime operations in this region, Anchor Panda also heavily targeted western companies in the US, Germany, Sweden, the UK, and Australia, and other countries involved in maritime satellite systems, aerospace companies, and defense contractors. Not surprisingly, embassies and diplomatic missions in the region, foreign intelligence services, and foreign governments with space programs were also targeted. We won’t share too many details about this adversary – we don’t want to make it too easy for them – but we will share some signatures specific to Anchor Panda. These signatures will help you find Anchor Panda, just remember to change the Signature ID (sid). alert tcp $VICTIM any -> $CONTROLLER any (msg: "[CrowdStrike] ANCHOR PANDA - Adobe Gh0st Beacon"; flow: established, to_server; content: "Adobe"; offset: 0; depth: 5; content: "|e0 00 00 00 78 9c|"; distance: 4; within: 15; sid: xxx; rev: 1; reference: url,https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/whois-anchor-panda/index.html; ) alert tcp $CONTROLLER any -> $VICTIM any (msg: "[CrowdStrike] ANCHOR PANDA - Poison Ivy Keep-Alive - From Controller"; dsize: 48; flow: established, from_server; content: "|54 90 1d b0 18 1b 7c ce f4 5b 24 2f ec c7 d2 21|"; depth: 16; sid: xxx; rev: 1; reference: url,https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/whois-anchor-panda/index.html; ) alert tcp $VICTIM any -> $CONTROLLER any (msg: "[CrowdStrike] ANCHOR PANDA - Poison Ivy Keep-Alive - From Victim"; dsize: 48; flow: established, to_server; content: "|af c0 bb 65 5d 07 e0 0d bf ab 75 2f 82 79 ae 26|"; depth: 16; sid: xxx; rev: 1; reference: url,https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/whois-anchor-panda/index.html; ) alert tcp $VICTIM any -> $CONTROLLER any (msg: "[CrowdStrike] ANCHOR PANDA Torn RAT Beacon Message Header Local"; flow: established, to_server; dsize: 16; content: "|00 00 00 11 c8 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00|"; depth: 16; flowbits: set,toread_header; flowbits: noalert; sid: xxx; rev: 1; reference: url,https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/whois-anchor-panda/index.html; ) alert tcp $VICTIM any -> $CONTROLLER any (msg: "[CrowdStrike] ANCHOR PANDA Torn RAT Beacon Message"; dsize: 200; flow: to_server,established; flowbits: isset,toread_header; content: "|40 7e 7e 7e|"; offset: 196; depth: 4; sid: xxx; rev: 1; reference: url, https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/whois-anchor-panda/index.html; ) Be sure to follow @CrowdStrike on Twitter as we continue to provide more intelligence and adversaries over the coming weeks. If you have any questions about these signatures or want to hear more about Anchor Panda and their tradecraft, please contact: intelligence@crowdstrike.com and inquire about our intelligence-as-a-service solutions. 
It's hard to believe that we've reached the end of another year. In the realm of cybersecurity, 2013 was a memorable year not for breaches, but for tectonic-level shifts that completely changed how we perceive cybersecurity and its impact on how we run our businesses, how our leaders govern, and more importantly, how we understand national security. In other words, for those in the C-Suite, technical issues were tangible business problems. This was highlighted by our APT1 report and the growing awareness that cybersecurity threats aren't just irritating, they severely impact an organization's bottom line. In case you missed some of our most read posts, here is a list that will give you insight into what content was top of mind with our Suite Spot M-Unition readers: Mandiant Exposes APT1 - One of China's Cyber Espionage Units & Releases 3,000 Indicators The Mandiant® Intelligence Center™ released an unprecedented report exposing APT1′s multi-year, enterprise-scale computer espionage campaign. APT1 is one of dozens of threat groups Mandiant tracks around the world and we consider it to be one of the most prolific in terms of the sheer quantity of information it has stolen. Chinese Leadership Change and the Advanced Persistent Threat We at Mandiant have considered the strategic impact of the Chinese change in leadership and its impact on Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) groups and the current cyber espionage campaign that has been traced back to the PRC. We have determined that the new leaders will only enhance the influence that the People's Liberation Army (PLA), State Owned Enterprises (SOE), and national-level central planning initiatives have already had in contributing to an environment which produces and nurtures APT. APT1 Three Months Later - Significantly Impacted, Though Active & Rebuilding Three months later, Mandiant has observed a decrease in APT1's operations. However, we can confirm that APT1 continues cyber espionage operations against targeted computer networks. While Mandiant's APT1 report seems to have affected APT1 operations, APT1 is still active using a well-coordinated and well-defined attack methodology against a wide set of industries - with a discernible post-report shift towards new tools and infrastructure. Richard Bejtlich on His Latest Book, "The Practice of Network Security Monitoring" Everyone wants to know how to find intruders on their networks. In this post, Richard Bejtlich writes about his first experiences learning to find intruders when he served in the Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team (AFCERT). These experiences spurred the decision to start writing books and to share his knowledge with the information security community. He also previews his latest book, "The Practice of Network Security Monitoring."
In the week since we released our report on APT1 , we have observed an amazing response, not only in the media but also by individuals who have taken the data we provided and conducted their own research. We are excited to see people using our data, both for online research and for their network defense. In this post we want to highlight and summarize information that others have discovered. 1. The phone number used by the APT1 DOTA persona was also a contact phone number for an apartment rental advertisement in 2009. This apartment is 600 meters away from the Unit 61398 headquarters building and further links the DOTA persona to that location. Chinese-speaking netizens disclosed on Twitter that the phone number we associated with DOTA (159-2193-7229) was also the contact phone number listed at http://shanghai.favolist.com/05953558.shtml . This page is a rental advertisement dated 2009-10-09 and shown in Figure 1 with the phone number underlined. Figure 2 is an English translation of the advertisement title and body. Figure 1: Rental advertisement at http://shanghai.favolist.com/05953558.shtml Figure 2: Translation of the rental advertisement at http://shanghai.favolist.com/05953558.shtml The apartment complex name, Yixinyuan (怡心苑), the location Waigaoqiao, and the description "about a 10-minute walk away from Gangcheng Road subway station" together pinpoint the apartment complex to be at Huashan Road 609 Long, Pudong, Shanghai, China, according to the Yixinyuan website at http://yixinyuan021.soufun.com . This apartment complex is only a 600-meter walk away from the Unit 61398 headquarters building, as depicted in Figure 3. Figure 3: Walking directions from Yixinyuan apartment complex to Unit 61398 headquarters We observed DOTA/APT1 using the phone number in June 2011 and again in September 2011, showing that the number was not a simple "throw-away" number registered for one-time use. The date of the advertisement and the date we observed DOTA using the phone number are separated by over one and a half years. It is plausible that DOTA (or someone in APT1) worked for Unit 61398, lived in the Yixinyuan apartment complex and wrote this advertisement.[1] The remaining possibilities seem significantly less likely, including: The phone number did not belong to APT1 in 2009, and it is a coincidence that the user of the phone at the time was associated with an apartment so close to Unit 61398. A member of APT1 lived 600 meters from Unit 61398, but APT1 is not Unit 61398. APT1 is not operating in Pudong but is intentionally trying to frame Unit 61398 or a Pudong-based organization. In 2011, someone in APT1 saw the rental advertisement from 2009 and configured a phone to successfully accept text messages to the phone number in the advertisement on multiple occasions. 2. The APT1 SuperHard persona may have been a student at the PLA's Information Engineering University, one of the Chinese military's premier training grounds for computer network operations. On his blog, Cyb3rsleuth disclosed a person using the username "Superhard_M" and the email address mei_qiang_82@hotmail.com. In a job profile, this person "mentions that his interests are network security and developing hacking tools." This person's address in 2005 was listed as "Henan Zhengzhou 1001 mailbox 774". Cyb3rsleuth noted this address "belongs to the famous PLA Information Engineering University [and] implies he was a student at PLAIEU."[2] Furthermore, a person named Mei Qiang (梅强) co-authored two papers in 2007 and 2008 that are associated with the PLAIEU. The papers are titled "HTTP Session Hijacking on Switch LAN and Its Countermeasures" and "Stack Protection Mechanisms in Windows Vista". In a 2012 report prepared for the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Northrop Grumman analysts noted, "The PLA Information Engineering University (PLAIEU), located in Zhengzhou, Henan Province, is perhaps the military university with the most comprehensive involvement in information warfare and computer network operations training, planning, and possibly also execution." This information is consistent with the APT1 SuperHard persona, and given SuperHard's development skills, it would not be surprising if SuperHard was trained at the PLAIEU. 3. The APT1 UglyGorilla persona may have been a student at Shanghai Jiaotong University in 2004. Cyb3rsleuth also disclosed that a person with the username "uglygorilla" was logged as "on station 2 times" by the Shanghai Jiaotong University (SJTU) bulletin board system in August 2004. This person logged in from the Shanghai IP address 210.22.114.46. Other people may use the name "uglygorilla" and this may not be the APT1 UglyGorilla persona. However, if it is, it would indicate that he was probably a student at SJTU when he posed his question about Chinese cyber troops to Zhang Zhaozhong. 4. In 2004, Unit 61398 was located in Pudong, Shanghai and was recruiting computer science students from Zhejiang University. An article published in the China Digital Times disclosed a 2004 recruitment notice on the Zhejiang University website advertising, "Unit 61398 of China's People's Liberation Army (located in Pudong District, Shanghai) seeks to recruit 2003-class computer science graduate students." This corroborates our assertions concerning the kinds of personnel that Unit 61398 recruits. This also indicates Unit 61398 has been operating in Pudong since 2004, even though the current headquarters facility was not built and operational until years later. Finally, our thanks to Wendy Nather, who expanded on our Occam's Razor arguments in her Idoneous Security blog. We appreciated the entire blog post, but especially these closing words: From what Mandiant has presented, the simplest explanation is the one it's offering. It's politically explosive, of course, and that's why belief comes into play. But if you have to do more work to deny something than to accept it, you might want to reconsider your chain of logic. [1] We are aware Marketplace reported that they called the phone number and reached someone unaffiliated with Unit 61398 or hacking activities. Marketplace said in the podcast that they called the number that the narrator said. This is when we discovered an unfortunate typo in the video narration script, which read "7729" instead of "7229" that was on the screen. The number was correctly published as "7229" in our main report. [2] The link between the PLAIEU and this address seems to be corroborated in this paper: http://file.lw23.com/6/60/607/6071f3f4-40e6-4c7b-8868-3b0b21a9f601.pdf
On 18 February 2013, Mandiant released a report exposing one of China's cyber espionage units. The group, which Mandiant calls APT1, is one of the most prolific we track in terms of the sheer quantity of information it has stolen. The scale and impact of APT1′s operations compelled us to write the report and release more than 3,000 Indicators to help organizations defend against APT1's tactics. The report linked APT1 to a unit within China's People's Liberation Army and received widespread attention from the media and from the U.S. government. Three months later, Mandiant has observed a decrease in APT1's operations. However, we can confirm that APT1 continues cyber espionage operations against targeted computer networks. While Mandiant's APT1 report seems to have affected APT1 operations, APT1 is still active using a well-coordinated and well-defined attack methodology against a wide set of industries -- with a discernible post-report shift towards new tools and infrastructure. Mandiant's report and the simultaneous release of 3,000+ indicators hindered APT1's operations by causing the group to retool and change some operational methodology. Since the report, APT1 has stopped using the vast majority of the infrastructure that was disclosed with the release of the indicators. However, APT1 maintained an extensive infrastructure of computer systems around the world, and it is highly likely that APT1 still maintains access to those systems or has utilized those systems to establish new attack infrastructure in the last three months. One thing that has not changed is the activity level of many of the 20+ Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) groups of suspected Chinese origin that Mandiant tracks. These groups are still very active and Mandiant has observed no significant changes in their operations after the release of the APT1 report. These groups also conduct cyber espionage campaigns against a broad range of victims and, based on Mandiant's observations, they were not directly affected by the release of the Mandiant APT1 report. The discovery and attribution of APT1 to China's 2nd Bureau of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Staff Department's (GSD) 3rd Department (Military Unit Cover Designator 61398) also elevated the public dialogue about cyber espionage and the theft of intellectual property to a level not seen before. President Obama's National Security Advisor, Thomas Donilon, said that cyber espionage has moved to the "forefront" of the US agenda in its relationship with China and called for the Chinese Government to stop the hacking and to join an international process for limiting economic espionage. Congress is taking action as well. Earlier this month, Senators Levin, McCain, Coburn and Rockefeller introduced S. 884, the Deter Cyber Theft Act , which would require the Government to publish an annual report listing foreign countries that engage in economic espionage and block imports from those countries made with stolen technologies. This bill is designed to be that next step not only to "name and shame" the bad actors but also to punish them economically. The subject of Chinese attacks, such as those conducted by APT1, seems poised to stay front and center on the diplomatic agenda where, according to the New York Times , it will be a "central issue in an upcoming visit to China by President Obama's national security adviser, Thomas Donilon."
A little over a year ago, Mandiant released a report that brought the term “Advanced Persistent Threat” (APT) into the public conversation and made these types of targeted attacks top of mind for government and commercial organizations around the world. Recently, FireEye COO, Kevin Mandia took the stage at RSA USA 2014 to take a look back and share his perspective on the activities that led to the release of the APT1 report and the aftermath. While the initial report caused a media frenzy, unquestionably, the most important part of the story is the aftermath. Mandiant released the report to elevate the dialogue and address the frustration of organizations that were throwing money at cybersecurity problems and still facing attacks. Yet, the results were not what we expected. Watch the video below for Kevin’s full speech and feel free to drop a comment below to continue the discussion. http://youtu.be/88o-uifbJSE
It was only a matter of time. Today, Mandiant learned of at least two malicious versions of our APT1 report that attempt to lure users into opening PDF documents titled "Mandiant" and "Mandiant_APT2_Report. " We are currently tracking the threat actors behind the activity and have no indication that APT1 itself is associated with either variant. Symantec and Brandon Dixon's 9B+ blog uncovered the two permutations of the report. Hashes for the malicious PDFs are available on their blogs. Thanks to both for posting their findings. Mandiant has not been compromised. Reports downloaded, previously and currently from our website, do not contain exploits. We recommend that you only retrieve Mandiant's reports from: http://intelreport.mandiant.com , then check the hash of the downloaded files against the hashes posted on our web site.
Today, The Mandiant® Intelligence Center™ released an unprecedented report exposing APT1's multi-year, enterprise-scale computer espionage campaign. APT1 is one of dozens of threat groups Mandiant tracks around the world and we consider it to be one of the most prolific in terms of the sheer quantity of information it has stolen. Highlights of the report include: Evidence linking APT1 to China's 2nd Bureau of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) General Staff Department's (GSD) 3rd Department (Military Cover Designator 61398). A timeline of APT1 economic espionage conducted since 2006 against 141 victims across multiple industries. APT1's modus operandi (tools, tactics, procedures) including a compilation of videos showing actual APT1 activity. The timeline and details of over 40 APT1 malware families. The timeline and details of APT1's extensive attack infrastructure. Mandiant is also releasing a digital appendix with more than 3,000 indicators to bolster defenses against APT1 operations. This appendix includes: Digital delivery of over 3,000 APT1 indicators, such as domain names, and MD5 hashes of malware. Thirteen (13) X.509 encryption certificates used by APT1. A set of APT1 Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) and detailed descriptions of over 40 malware families in APT1's arsenal of digital weapons. IOCs that can be used in conjunction with Redline ™, Mandiant's free host-based investigative tool, or with Mandiant Intelligent Response® (MIR) , Mandiant's commercial enterprise investigative tool. The scale and impact of APT1's operations compelled us to write this report. The decision to publish a significant part of our intelligence about Unit 61398 was a painstaking one. What started as a "what if" discussion about our traditional non-disclosure policy quickly turned into the realization that the positive impact resulting from our decision to expose APT1 outweighed the risk of losing much of our ability to collect intelligence on this particular APT group. It is time to acknowledge the threat is originating from China, and we wanted to do our part to arm and prepare security professionals to combat the threat effectively. The issue of attribution has always been a missing link in the public's understanding of the landscape of APT cyber espionage. Without establishing a solid connection to China, there will always be room for observers to dismiss APT actions as uncoordinated, solely criminal in nature, or peripheral to larger national security and global economic concerns. We hope that this report will lead to increased understanding and coordinated action in countering APT network breaches. We recognize that no one entity can understand the entire complex picture that many years of intense cyber espionage by a single group creates. We look forward to seeing the surge of data and conversations a report like this will likely generate. Dan McWhorter Managing Director, Threat Intelligence
As we noted yesterday , Brandon Dixon's 9B+ blog and Symantec reported the discovery of two malicious versions of our APT1 report. We wanted to provide follow-on details based on our analysis of these samples. Additionally, we have attached Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) so folks can begin using them to detect the malware. PDF1 - "Mandiant_APT2_Report" Lure MD5: 14A6E24977FF6E7E8A8661AADFA1A1F3 This is a password protected PDF using the password "hello" and exploits the CVE-2011-2462 vulnerability from back in December of 2011. Once opened it drops %TEMP% AdobeArm.tmp (4D9A1144E08E7FAE7D6DB8BC606F5BE5) and %TEMP% Mandiant_APT2_Report.pdf (29E9494E2EBA1D8F8AD9EE308FFE53EF). The newly dropped report is opened and the AdobeArm.tmp binary is executed. The AdobeArm.tmp malware is a variant of the Bisrala downloader Trojan outlined here: http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2011-061607-2451-99&tabid=2 . The malware can download and execute additional malware, list processes and files, load additional DLLs, and overwrite system files. The malware executes its main functionality from an embedded shellcode payload. Before executing its payload the malware creates a thread that will monitor for windows created containing text related to AVG firewall notifications. The malware attempts to dismiss these notifications by selecting the button that will add an exception for this connection in the AVG firewall. The malware then extracts its main payload and initially decodes it using a single byte XOR key of 0x99 . An additional buffer is then decoded within the decoded shellcode using a single byte XOR key of 0xFF . Throughout execution, shellcode and configuration data are re-encoded to prevent the malware from being fully decoded in memory. This buffer contains configuration data that will be used later by the malware and is shown below. Figure 1: Decoded configuration data The malware's main payload is implemented using multiple shellcode buffers that are decoded and re-encoded throughout their execution. The malware then attempts to load the following DLLs and call an exported function from each which are listed below: The malware attempts to load the DLL named %SYSTEMROOT% system32appmgmt.dll and calls an exported function named dll . The malware attempts to load the DLL named %SYSTEMROOT% system32PurpleTrans.dll and calls an exported function named RealWork . The malware copies its embedded configuration data to a file named %TEMP% winbha.dat that is used to store additional configuration information encoded with a large XOR key. The malware then attempts to connect to the configured server at itsec.eicp.net using TCP port 443 to download files to the infected system. Other indicators include: It creates the following mutexes: "0x1A7B4C9F" and "0123456AB" Creates the registry key: HKCUSoftwareMicrosoftWindowsCurrentVersionRunLoad: %TEMP% AdobeArm.tmp PDF2 - Japanese email reported by Symantec MD5: 2A42BF17393C3CAAA663A6D1DADE9C93 The second PDF appears to be targeting Japanese entities, as identified by Symantec. The PDF exploits the CVE-2013-0641 vulnerability in Adobe Reader. This causes the PDF to drop the file %TEMP% D.T (CB33E97F46A219804DDB373FF982D694). The binary has already been discussed previously at http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/new-adobe-pdf-zero-day-unleashes-trojanswaylib . D.T is responsible for decrypting and dropping the next piece at %TEMP% L2P.T (A7310E731271BBB98FF09818E06f4A4D), loading and executing L2P.T and displaying the following message box: Figure 2: Message box displayed by the D.T DLL loaded within Adobe Reader The L2P.T that is executed is different from what was previously described elsewhere. It drops a clean PDF at %TEMP% Adobe Reader.pdf (44374BE2AEAA7E46DEFE3DA50569EB9E) and a malicious binary at %TEMP% AdobeARM.exe (41915B34FC50FFDD2A6A0969E3F55FF1). The clean PDF is then displayed for the user while AdobeARM.exe is executed in the background. AdobeARM.exe first copies itself to C:Documents and SettingsAll UsersDocumentsMy MusicAcroRd32Info.exe and then points the following Run key to its new copy: HKCUSoftwareMicrosoftWindowsCurrentVersionRunShStatEXE . At this point AdobeARM.exe has the ability to communicate out to several different servers on port 80. The GET request URIs are created by using the hostname along with the language ID of the infected system. The malware takes the hostname string (up to 0x14 characters), increments each character by one and then appends the language ID string. Potential servers and URI's include: Figure 3: Servers and URI's hardcoded in AdobeARM.exe If successful, the malware downloads data to %TEMP% mp .dat . The data received is encrypted using RC4 where the key is seeded with the string " http://.www. " repeated for a total of 256 characters. After the received data is decrypted, the malware verifies that it begins with "MZ" and then executes the binary. The malware sleeps for 15 minutes before it tries to connect out again. Special shout-out to Will Gibb and the Mandiant Intel Team for their contributions! Download related IOCs here ZIP Attachment MD5: ABD9DE4EFE115EAF5FA4338557395739
The following are MD5 and SHA1 hashes for the DER encoded SSL certificates released in Appendix F of the recent Mandiant APT1 report . We are releasing these to aid network detection of APT1 SSL-encrypted malware traffic. SIGNATURES MD5 SHA1
Yesterday, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) announced the indictment of five members of the Second Bureau of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) General Staff Department’s Third Department, also known as PLA Unit 61398. This is the same unit that Mandiant publicly unmasked last year in the APT1 report . At the time it was originally released, China denounced the report, saying that it lacked sufficient evidence . Following the DOJ’s indictment, however, China’s usual response changed from “you lack sufficient evidence” to “ you have fabricated the evidence ”, calling on the U.S. to “correct the error immediately.” This is a significant evolution in China’s messaging; if the evidence is real, it overwhelmingly demonstrates China's unilateral attempts to leapfrog years of industrial development -- by using cyber intrusions to access and steal intellectual property. The evidence provided in the indictment includes Exhibit F (pages 54-56), which shows three charts based on Dynamic DNS data. These charts indicate that the named defendants (Unit 61398 members) were re-pointing their domain names at a Dynamic DNS provider during Chinese business hours from 2008 to 2013. The China work day, particularly for government offices, is very predictable, as noted on this travel site : "Government offices, institutions and schools begin at 8:00 or 8:30, and end at 17:00 or 17:30 with two-hour noon break, from Monday to Friday. They usually close on Saturday, Sunday and public holidays." What Exhibit F shows is a spike of activity on Monday through Friday around 8am in Shanghai (China Standard Time), a roughly 2-hour lull at lunchtime, and then another spike of activity from about 2pm to 6pm. The charts also show that there were very few changes in Dynamic DNS resolution on weekends. At Mandiant (now a FireEye company), we can corroborate the DOJ’s data by releasing additional evidence that we did not include in the APT1 report. In the APT1 report, we specified the following: Over a two-year period (January 2011 to January 2013) we confirmed 1,905 instances of APT1 actors logging into their hop infrastructure from 832 different IP addresses with Remote Desktop. Of the 832 IP addresses, 817 (98.2%) were Chinese and belong predominantly to four large net blocks in Shanghai which we will refer to as APT1’s home networks. In order to make a user’s experience as seamless as possible, the Remote Desktop protocol requires client applications to forward several important details to the server, including their client hostname and the client keyboard layout. In 1,849 of the 1,905 (97%) APT1 Remote Desktop sessions we observed in the past two years , the keyboard layout setting was “Chinese (Simplified) — US Keyboard.” One thing we did not originally provide was an analysis of the time of day and day of week that these 1,905 Remote Desktop (RDP) connections occurred. However, when we look at these connections in bar chart format, obvious patterns appear: Figure 1: APT1 Remote Desktop login times distributed by hour of day (China Standard Time) Figure 2: APT1 Remote Desktop login times distributed by day of week (China Standard Time) Essentially, APT1 conducted almost all of the 1,905 RDP connections from 2011 to 2013: (1) On week days (Monday through Friday), (2) between 8am and noon, 2pm and 6pm, and 7pm and 10pm CST. On some occasions, APT1 personnel appear to have worked on weekends, but these are minor exceptions to the norm. Consider the following evidence together for the 1,905 RDP connections: 98.2% of IP addresses used to log in to hop points (which help mask the real point of origin to victim organizations) were from Shanghai networks 97% of the connections were from computers using the Simplified Chinese language setting 97.5% of the connections occurred on weekdays, China Standard Time 98.8% of the connections occurred between 7am and midnight China Standard Time 75% occurred between 8am to noon or between 2pm to 6pm 15% occurred between 7pm and 10pm The simplest conclusion based on these facts is that APT1 is operating in China, and most likely in Shanghai. Although one could attempt to explain every piece of evidence away, at some point the evidence starts to become overwhelming when it is all pointing in one direction. Our timestamp data, derived from active RDP logins over a two year period, matches the DOJ’s timestamp data, derived from a different source -- active Dynamic DNS re-pointing over a five year period. These data sets show that APT1 is either operating in China during normal Chinese business hours or that APT1 is intentionally going to painstaking lengths to look like they are. The data used to produce the charts above are archived in raw format and we are confident that any computer networking expert would certify them as genuine and non-fabricated in a court of law. But, that isn’t really the issue. The real issue is: will this activity continue and for how long? Regardless, FireEye remains focused on how these threats evolve over time, in order to reduce the time from “detect” to “fix”, as these and other actors continue targeting potential victims.
FireEye, Inc. (NASDAQ: FEYE), the leader in stopping today’s advanced cyber attacks, today announced it will participate in four sessions at RSA Conference 2014 , February 24 th through February 28 th in San Francisco. The sessions will be highlighted by Kevin Mandia discussing the impact of last year’s groundbreaking APT1 report , with researchers from FireEye also discussing the advancement of malware and the shortcomings of anti-virus software. Attendees can visit FireEye at RSA in the North Expo Hall at booth #2813 and Mandiant in the South Expo Hall at booth #501. FireEye speakers and presentations include: WHAT: “ New Frontiers in Security ” WHEN: Tuesday, February 25, 2:40 – 3:40 PM WHERE: Moscone West, Room #3018 WHO: Kevin Mandia, SVP and COO, FireEye Industry experts Kevin Mandia (Founder and Former CEO of Mandiant) with Ted Schlein (Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers), Nate Fick (Founder and CEO of Endgame), and Lieutenant General Ken Minihan (Paladin Capital, Former Director of NSA) discuss why and how organizations must rethink their security approach as well as how companies should prioritize to protect themselves today as well as tomorrow. WHAT : " Twilight of Legacy AV Models – A Different Long Tail Story " WHEN : Tuesday, February 25, 1:20 – 2:20 PM WHERE : Moscone North, Room #132 WHO : Zheng Bu, Vice President, FireEye Research Labs, FireEye Malware has a very short lifetime. But how short is it? Zheng Bu will present his study on the surprisingly fat-head, long-tail lifetime of malware and the challenges that arise from this. With the anti-virus industry presenting a reactive model that performs very badly on the fat-head, Bu will demonstrate a possible mitigation plan based on the lengthy life of malware. WHAT: " DLL Side-Loading: A Thorn in the Side of the Anti-Virus (AV) Industry " WHEN: Wednesday, February 26, 12:00 ­– 12:20 PM WHERE: Moscone West, Room #3006 WHO: Amanda Stewart, Malware Research Engineer, FireEye What is DLL Side-Loading? How do you recognize it? How do you prevent it? Malware research engineer Amanda Stewart will dig into the techniques that sneak malware past anti-virus scanners and how APT developers used this technique in a highly targeted attack against a Fortune 50 company last year. WHAT: " State of the Hack: One Year After the APT1 Report " WHEN: Thursday, February 27, 3:55 – 4:20 PM WHERE: Moscone South, Esplanade Ballroom WHO: Kevin Mandia, SVP and COO, FireEye A year after exposing China’s espionage efforts, Kevin Mandia returns to discuss the impact the groundbreaking APT1 report has had on the world. Hear what approaches attackers are now using to compromise organizations and what organizations should be doing to narrow their security gap in this radically changed landscape. Attendees of RSA Conference 2014 in San Francisco will be able to view live demonstrations of the expanded FireEye Security Platform at the FireEye booth (North Expo #2813) from February 24– 27, 2014. For more information visit http://www.fireeye.com/ , and be sure to follow @FireEye for the latest threat research and updates from the company during RSA Conference 2014. About FireEye, Inc. FireEye has invented a purpose-built, virtual machine-based security platform that provides real-time threat protection to enterprises and governments worldwide against the next generation of cyber attacks. These highly sophisticated cyber attacks easily circumvent traditional signature-based defenses, such as next-generation firewalls, IPS, anti-virus, and gateways. The FireEye Threat Prevention Platform provides real-time, dynamic threat protection without the use of signatures to protect an organization across the primary threat vectors and across the different stages of an attack life cycle. The core of the FireEye platform is a virtual execution engine, complemented by dynamic threat intelligence, to identify and block cyber attacks in real time. FireEye has over 1,500 customers across more than 40 countries, including over 100 of the Fortune 500. Media Contact Vitor De Souza FireEye, Inc. vitor.desouza@fireeye.com (415) 699-9838 # # # © 2014 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye and Mandiant are registered trademarks or trademarks of FireEye, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brands, products, or service names are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.
Download the Kaspersky Security Bulletin: Threat Predictions for 2018 Introduction As hard as it is to believe, it’s once again time for our APT Predictions. Looking back at a year like 2017 brings the internal conflict of being a security researcher into full view: on the one hand, each new event is an exciting new research avenue for us, as what were once theoretical problems find palpable expression in reality. This allows us to understand the actual attack surface and attacker tactics and to further hone our hunting and detection to address new attacks. On the other hand, as people with a heightened concern for the security posture of users at large, each event is a bigger catastrophe. Rather than consider each new breach as yet another example of the same, we see the compounding cumulative insecurity facing users, e-commerce, financial, and governmental institutions alike. As we stated last year, rather than thinly-veiled vendor pitching, our predictions are an attempt to bring to bear our research throughout the year in the form of trends likely to peak in the coming year. Our record – did we get it right? As a snapshot scorecard of our performance last year, these are some of our 2017 predictions and some examples where relevant: Espionage and APTs: Passive implants showing almost no signs of infection come into fashion Yes – https://securelist.com/unraveling-the-lamberts-toolkit/77990/ Ephemeral infections / memory malware Yes – https://securelist.com/fileless-attacks-against-enterprise-networks/77403/ Espionage goes mobile Yes – https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/an-investigation-of-chrysaor-malware-on.html Financial Attacks: The future of financial attacks Yes – https://securelist.com/lazarus-under-the-hood/77908/ Ransomware: Dirty, lying ransomware Yes – https://securelist.com/schroedingers-petya/78870/ Industrial threats: The ICS Armageddon didn’t come yet (and we are happy to be wrong on that), however, we’ve seen ICS come under attack from Industoyer – https://www.welivesecurity.com/2017/06/12/industroyer-biggest-threat-industrial-control-systems-since-stuxnet/ IoT: A brick by any other name Yes! BrickerBot – https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/04/brickerbot-the-permanent-denial-of-service-botnet-is-back-with-a-vengeance/ Information Warfare: Yes, multiple examples – https://citizenlab.ca/2017/05/tainted-leaks-disinformation-phish/ What can we expect in 2018? More supply chain attacks. Kaspersky Lab’s Global Research and Analysis Team tracks over 100 APT (advanced persistent threat) groups and operations. Some of these are incredibly sophisticated and possess wide arsenals that include zero-day exploits, fileless attack tools, and combine traditional hacking attacks with handovers to more sophisticated teams that handle the exfiltration part. We have often seen cases in which advanced threat actors have attempted to breach a certain target over a long period of time and kept failing at it. This was either due to the fact that the target was using strong internet security suites, had educated their employees not to fall victim to social engineering, or consciously followed the Australian DSD TOP35 mitigation strategies for APT attacks. In general, an actor that is considered both advanced and persistent won’t give up that easily, they’ll continue poking the defenses until they find a way in. When everything else fails, they are likely to take a step back and re-evaluate the situation. During such a re-evaluation, threat actors can decide a supply chain attack can be more effective than trying to break into their target directly. Even a target whose networks employ the world’s best defenses is likely using software from a third-party. The third party might be an easier target and can be leveraged to attack the better protected original target enterprise. During 2017, we have seen several such cases, including but not limited to: Shadowpad CCleaner ExPetr / NotPetya These attacks can be extremely difficult to identify or mitigate. For instance, in the case of Shadowpad, the attackers succeeded in Trojanizing a number of packages from Netsarang that were widely used around world, in banks, large enterprises, and other industry verticals. The difference between the clean and Trojanized packages can be dauntingly difficult to notice –in many cases it’s the command and control (C&C) traffic that gives them away. For CCleaner, it was estimated that over 2 million computers received the infected update, making it one of the biggest attacks of 2017. Analysis of the malicious CCleaner code allowed us to correlate it with a couple of other backdoors that are known to have been used in the past by APT groups from the ‘Axiom umbrella’, such as APT17 also known as Aurora. This proves the now extended lengths to which APT groups are willing to go in order to accomplish their objectives. Our assessment is that the amount of supply chain attacks at the moment is probably much higher than we realize but these have yet to be noticed or exposed. During 2018, we expect to see more supply chain attacks, both from the point of discovery and as well as actual attacks. Trojanizing specialized software used in specific regions and verticals will become a move akin to waterholing strategically chosen sites in order to reach specific swaths of victims and will thus prove irresistible to certain types of attackers. More high-end mobile malware. In August 2016, CitizenLab and Lookout published their analysis of the discovery of a sophisticated mobile espionage platform named Pegasus. Pegasus, a so-called ‘lawful interception’ software suite, is sold to governments and other entities by an Israeli company called NSO Group. When combined with zero-days capable of remotely bypassing a modern mobile operating systems’ security defenses, such as iOS, this is a highly potent system against which there is little defense. In April 2017, Google published its analysis of the Android version of the Pegasus spyware which it called Chrysaor . In addition to ‘lawful surveillance’ spyware such as Pegasus and Chrysaor, many other APT groups have developed their own mobile malware implants. Due to the fact that iOS is an operating system locked down from introspection, there is very little that a user can do to check if their phone is infected. Somehow, despite the greater state of vulnerability of Android, the situation is better on Android where products such as Kaspersky AntiVirus for Android are available to ascertain the integrity of a device. Our assessment is that the total number of mobile malware existing in the wild is likely higher than currently reported, due to shortcomings in telemetry that makes these more difficult to spot and eradicate. We estimate that in 2018 more high-end APT malware for mobile will be discovered, as a result of both an increase in the attacks and improvement in security technologies designed to catch them. More BeEF-like compromises with web profiling. Due to a combination of increased interest and better security and mitigation technologies being deployed by default in operating systems, the prices of zero-day exploits have skyrocketed through 2016 and 2017. For instance, the latest Zerodium payout chart lists up to $1,500,000 for a complete iPhone (iOS) Remote jailbreak with persistence attack, which is another way of saying ‘a remote infection without any interaction from the user’. The incredible prices that some government customers have most certainly chosen to pay for these exploits mean there is increasing attention paid towards protecting these exploits from accidental disclosure. This translates into the implementation of a more solid reconnaissance phase before delivering the actual attack components. The reconnaissance phase can, for instance emphasize the identification of the exact versions of the browser used by the target, their operating system, plugins and other third-party software. Armed with this knowledge, the threat actor can fine tune their exploit delivery to a less sensitive ‘1-day’ or ‘N-day’ exploit, instead of using the crown jewels . These profiling techniques have been fairly consistent with APT groups like Turla and Sofacy , as well as Newsbeef (a.k.a. Newscaster, Ajax hacking team, or ‘Charming Kitten’), but also other APT groups known for their custom profiling frameworks, such as the prolific Scanbox. Taking the prevalence of these frameworks into account in combination with a surging need to protect expensive tools, we estimate the usage of profiling toolkits such as ‘BeEF ‘ will increase in 2018 with more groups adopting either public frameworks or developing their own. Sophisticated UEFI and BIOS attacks. The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) is a software interface which serves as the intermediary between the firmware and the operating system on modern PCs. Established in 2005 by an alliance of leading software and hardware developers, Intel most notable amongst them, it’s now quickly superseding the legacy BIOS standard. This was achieved thanks to a number of advanced features that BIOS lacks: for example, the ability to install and run executables, networking and Internet capabilities, cryptography, CPU-independent architecture and drivers, etc. The very advanced capabilities that make UEFI such an attractive platform also open the way to new vulnerabilities that didn’t exist in the age of the more rigid BIOS. For example, the ability to run custom executable modules makes it possible to create malware that would be launched by UEFI directly before any anti-malware solution – or, indeed, the OS itself – had a chance to start. The fact that commercial-grade UEFI malware exists has been known since 2015, when the Hacking team UEFI modules were discovered. With that in mind, it is perhaps surprising that no significant UEFI malware has been found, a fact that we attribute to the difficulty in detecting these in a reliable way. We estimate that in 2018 we will see the discovery of more UEFI-based malware. Destructive attacks continue. Beginning in November 2016, Kaspersky Lab observed a new wave of wiper attacks directed at multiple targets in the Middle East. The malware used in the new attacks was a variant of the infamous Shamoon worm that targeted Saudi Aramco and Rasgas back in 2012. Dormant for four years, one of the most mysterious wipers in history has returned. Also known as Disttrack, Shamoon is a highly destructive malware family that effectively wipes the victim machine. A group known as the ‘Cutting Sword of Justice’ took credit for the Saudi Aramco attack by posting a Pastebin message on the day of the attack (back in 2012), and justified the attack as a measure against the Saudi monarchy. The Shamoon 2.0 attacks seen in November 2016 targeted organizations in various critical and economic sectors in Saudi Arabia. Just like the previous variant, the Shamoon 2.0 wiper aims for the mass destruction of systems inside compromised organizations. While investigating the Shamoon 2.0 attacks, Kaspersky Lab also discovered a previously unknown wiper malware that appears to be targeting organizations in Saudi Arabia. We’ve called this new wiper StoneDrill and have been able to link it with a high degree of confidence to the Newsbeef APT group. In addition to Shamoon and Stonedrill, 2017 has been a tough year in terms of destructive attacks. The ExPetr/NotPetya attack, which was initially considered to be ransomware , turned out to be a cleverly camouflaged wiper as well. ExPetr was followed by other waves of ‘ransomware’ attacks, in which there is little chance for the victims to recover their data; all cleverly masked ‘wipers as ransomware’. One of the lesser known facts about ‘wipers as ransomware’ is perhaps that a wave of such attacks was observed in 2016 from the CloudAtlas APT, which leveraged what appeared to be ‘wipers as ransomware’ against financial institutions in Russia. In 2018, we estimate that destructive attacks will continue to rise, leveraging its status as the most visible type of cyberwarfare. More subversion of cryptography. In March 2017, IoT encryption scheme proposals developed by the NSA came into question with Simon and Speck variant ISO approvals being both withdrawn and delayed a second time . In August 2016, Juniper Networks announced the discovery of two mysterious backdoors in their NetScreen firewalls. Perhaps the most interesting of the two was an extremely subtle change of the constants used for the Dual_EC random number generator, which would allow a knowledgeable attacker to decrypt VPN traffic from NetScreen devices. The original Dual_EC algorithm was designed by the NSA and pushed through NIST. Back in 2013, a Reuters report suggested that NSA paid RSA $10 million to put the vulnerable algorithm in their products as a means of subverting encryption. Even if the theoretical possibility of a backdoor was identified as early as 2007, several companies (including Juniper) continued to use it with a different set of constants, which would make it theoretically secure. It appears that this different set of constants made some APT actor unhappy enough to merit hacking into Juniper and changing the constants to a set that they could control and leverage to decrypt VPN connections. These attempts haven’t gone unnoticed. In September 2017, an international group of cryptography experts have forced the NSA to back down on two new encryption algorithms, which the organization was hoping to standardize. In October 2017, news broke about a flaw in a cryptographic library used by Infineon in their hardware chips for generation of RSA primes. While the flaw appears to have been unintentional, it does leave the question open in regards to how secure are the underlying encryption technologies used in our everyday life, from smart cards, wireless networks or encrypted web traffic. In 2018, we predict that more severe cryptographic vulnerabilities will be found and (hopefully) patched, be they in the standards themselves or the specific implementations. Identity in e-commerce comes into crisis. The past few years have been punctuated by increasingly catastrophic large-scale breaches of personally identifiable information (PII). Latest among these is the Equifax breach reportedly affecting 145.5 million Americans. While many have grown desensitized to the weight of these breaches, it’s important to understand that the release of PII at scale endangers a fundamental pillar of e-commerce and the bureaucratic convenience of adopting the Internet for important paperwork. Sure, fraud and identity theft have been problems for a long time, but what happens when the fundamental identifying information is so widely proliferated that it’s simply not reliable at all? Commerce and governmental institutions (particularly in the United States) will be faced with a choice between scaling back the modern comforts of adopting the Internet for operations or doubling down on the adoption of other multi-factor solutions. Perhaps thus far resilient alternatives like ApplePay will come into vogue as de facto means of insuring identity and transactions, but in the meantime we may see a slowdown in the critical role of the Internet for modernizing tedious bureaucratic processes and cutting operational costs. More router and modem hacks. Another known area of vulnerability that has gone vastly ignored is that of routers and modems. Be they home or enterprise, these pieces of hardware are everywhere, they’re critically important to daily operations, and tend to run proprietary pieces of software that go unpatched and unwatched. At the end of the day, these little computers are Internet-facing by design and thereby sitting at a critical juncture for an attacker intent on gaining persistent and stealthy access to a network. Moreover, as some very cool recent research has shown , in some cases attackers might even be able to impersonate different Internet users, making it possible to throw off the trail of an attacker entirely to a different connecting address. At a time of increased interest in misdirection and false flags, this is no small feat. Greater scrutiny of these devices will inevitably yield some interestin findings. A medium for social chaos. Beyond the leaks and political drama of the past year’s newfound love for information warfare, social media itself has taken a politicized role beyond our wildest dreams. Whether it’s at the hand of political pundits or confusing comedic jabs at Facebook’s CEO by South Park’s writers, eyes have turned against the different social media giants demanding some level of fact-checking and identification of fake users and bots attempting to exert disproportionate levels of social influence. Sadly, it’s becoming obvious that these networks (which base their success on quantified metrics like ‘daily active users’) have little incentive to truly purge their user base of bots. Even when these bots are serving an obvious agenda or can be tracked and traced by independent researchers. We expect that as the obvious abuse continues and large bot networks become accessible to wider swaths of politically unsavory characters, that the greater backlash will be directed at the use of social media itself, with disgusted users eagerly looking for alternatives to the household giants that revel in the benefits of the abuse for profits and clicks. APT predictions – conclusion In 2017 we pronounced the death of Indicators of Compromise . In 2018, we expect to see advanced threat actors playing to their new strengths, honing their new tools and the terrifying angles described above. Each year’s themes and trends shouldn’t be taken in isolation – they build on each other to enrich an ever-growing landscape of threats facing users of all types, be it individuals, enterprise, or government. The only consistent reprieve from this onslaught is the sharing and knowledgeable application of high-fidelity threat intelligence. While these predictions cover trends for advanced targeted threats, individual industry sectors will face their own distinct challenges. In 2018, we wanted to shine the spotlight on some of those as well – and have prepared predictions for the connected healthcare, automotive, financial services, and industrial security sectors, as well as cryptocurrencies. You can find them all here! Threat Predictions for Automotive in 2018 Threat Predictions for Connected Health in 2018 Threat Predictions for Financial Services and Fraud in 2018 Threat Predictions for Industrial Security in 2018 Threat Predictions for Cryptocurrencies in 2018 Threat Predictions for Connected Life in 2018
CVE-2015-2545 is a vulnerability discovered in 2015 and corrected with Microsoft’s update MS15-099. The vulnerability affects Microsoft Office versions 2007 SP3, 2010 SP2, 2013 SP1 and 2013 RT SP1. The error enables an attacker to execute arbitrary code using a specially crafted EPS image file. The exploit uses PostScript and can evade Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) and Data Execution Prevention (DEP) protection methods. The exploit was discovered in the wild in August 2015, when it was used in a targeted attack by the Platinum group , presumably against targets in India. Over the following months, there was significant growth in the number of threat actors using the vulnerability as a primary tool for initial penetration, with both the attack groups and their targets located in South-East and Central Asia and the Far East. In this research paper, we discuss examples of attacks using the CVE-2015-2545 vulnerability undertaken by some of these groups. Overview of groups using CVE-2015-2545 Platinum (also known as TwoForOne) The group is believe to originate from South-East Asia. Its attacks can be traced as far back as 2009. The group is notable for exploiting 0-day vulnerabilities and carrying out a small number of highly focused targeted attacks – mostly against government agencies in Malaysia, Indonesia, China and India. This group was the first to exploit the CVE-2015-2545 vulnerability. After the vulnerability was corrected with Microsoft updates in September and November 2015, no new Platinum attacks exploiting this vulnerability have been detected. Microsoft presented the activity of this group at the SAS conference in February 2016, and in its paper: PLATINUM: Targeted attacks in South and Southeast Asia . APT16 The group has been known for several years and is believed to be of Chinese origin. In November and December 2015, it used a modified exploit for CVE-2015-2545 in attacks against information and news agencies in Taiwan. These attacks were described in a FireEye research paper – The EPS Awakens – Part 2 . EvilPost In December 2015, Kaspersky Lab became aware of a targeted attack against the Japanese defense sector. In order to infect victims, the attacker sent an email with an attached DOCX file exploiting the CVE-2015-2545 vulnerability in Microsoft Office using an embedded EPS (Encapsulated Postscript) object. The EPS object contained a shellcode that dropped and loaded a 32-bit or 64-bit DLL file depending on the system architecture. This, in turn exploited another vulnerability to elevate privileges to Local System (CVE-2015-1701) and download additional malware components from the C&C server. The C&C server used in the attack was located in Japan and appears to have been compromised. However, there is no indication that it has ever been used for any other malicious purpose. Monitoring of the server activity for a period of several months did not result in any new findings. We believe the attackers either lost access to the server or realized that it resulted in too much attention from security researchers, as the attack was widely discussed by the Japanese security community. According to our research partner in Japan, the original EvilPost attack in December 2015 arrived as a spear-phishing email with a Word document attached. This document embedded an EPS object file, which triggered a vulnerability in the EPS format handler in Microsoft Word. Even with an exploit component, Microsoft Word rendered the document correctly and displayed the decoy message. The document is written in good Japanese, as shown below. It has been used to decoy New Year impressions of defense-related organizations. This attack was also described in the FireEye report , mentioned above. An overview of the activity of the EvilPost group activity was provided to subscribers of the Kaspersky Lab Threat Intelligence Service in March 2016. For information about the service, please write to intelreports@kaspersky.com . SPIVY In March and April 2016, a series of emails laced with an exploit forCVE-2015-2545 were detected. The emails were sent in spear-phishing attacks, presumably targeting organizations in Hong Kong. Identifying a specific group behind these attacks is difficult because they used a new variant of a widely available backdoor known as PoisonIvy (from which the name of the group, SPIVY, is derived). A description of these incidents can be found in the PaloAlto blog . Danti and SVCMONDR These two groups have not yet been publicly described. An overview of their attacks and the tools used is provided in this report. Danti attacks Danti (Kaspersky Lab’s internal name) is an APT actor that has been active at least since 2015, predominantly targeting Indian government organizations. According to our telemetry, Danti has also been actively hitting targets in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Myanmar, Nepal and the Philippines
Q1 in figures According to KSN data, Kaspersky Lab products detected and neutralized 1 345 570 352 threats in Q1 2013. A total of 22,750 new modifications of malicious programs targeting mobile devices were detected this past quarter — that’s more than half of the total number of modifications detected in all of 2012. Some 40% of the exploits seen in the first quarter of this year target vulnerabilities in Adobe products. Nearly 60% of all malicious hosts are located in three countries: the US, Russia, and the Netherlands. Overview The first quarter of 2013 turned out to be a busy time in IT security. This report will address the most significant events. Cyberespionage and cyberweapons Red October At the very beginning of the year, Kaspersky Lab published a significant report with the results of a study on the global cyberespionage operation known as Red October . These attacks targeted various government agencies, diplomatic organizations and companies around the world. Analyzing the files and reconstructing the structure of the attack took several months. However, after a labor-intensive study, we were able to determine several key facts. The attackers have been active over the past five years. The multifunctional platform that they used helped them quickly use new, expanded modules to collect information. In order to control and manage infected systems, they created more than 60 different domain names and several servers hosted in different countries. The command sever infrastructure is comprised of a chain of proxy servers. In addition to traditional targeted attacks on workstations, Red October is also capable of stealing data from mobile devices, collecting data from network equipment, collecting files from USB drives, stealing email databases from local Outlook archives or from remote POP/IMAP servers, and extracting files from local FTP servers on the Internet. MiniDuke In February, FireEye published an analysis of a new malicious program that penetrates systems using a 0-day vulnerability in Adobe Reader (CVE-2013-0640). This became the first exploit capable of bypassing the Acrobat Reader sandbox. It downloaded a backdoor meant to steal data from an infected system. After obtaining examples of this malicious program for analysis, we gave it the name ItaDuke. In time, we discovered several similar incidents targeting the very same vulnerability, only with different threats. The malicious program used by the cybercriminals was dubbed MiniDuke. An investigation into these incidents was conducted by the Hungarian company CrySys Lab. MiniDuke’s victims turned out to be government agencies located in Ukraine, Belgium, Portugal, Romania, the Czech Republic and Ireland, as well as a research organization in Hungary, in addition to a research institute, two scientific research centers and a medical facility in the US. In total, we detected 59 victims in 23 countries. One of the most interesting characteristics of the MiniDuke attacks was the combination of a threat with code written using a complex, ‘old school’ approach, and relatively new, yet tried-and-true, exploit technologies targeting Adobe Reader vulnerabilities. The attackers sent out malicious PDF documents with exploits targeting versions 9 through 11 of Adobe Reader. The documents contained information about a seminar on human rights (ASEM), news about Ukraine’s foreign policy, and the plans of NATO countries. If an exploit was successful, the victim’s computer would be infiltrated by a unique backdoor, small at just 20 KB, written in Assembler. The cybercriminals used Twitter in this attack: in order to obtain C&C server addresses and subsequently download new malicious modules, the backdoor sought out special tweets from previously created accounts. As soon as the infected system established a connection with the command server, it would begin to receive encrypted modules (backdoors) bundled with GIF files. These modules had relatively simple functions: copying, moving and deleting files, creating directories, and downloading new malicious programs. APT1 In February, Mandiant published a large PDF report on the attacks launched by a certain group of Chinese hackers going by the name of APT1. The term APT (Advanced Persistent Threat) is still a buzz word. Yet sometimes it refers to threats or attacks that aren’t exactly “advanced”. However, in the case of APT1, “advanced” is no exaggeration — this campaign run by Chinese hackers is large-scale and not to be taken lightly. The Mandiant reports starts off by stating that APT1 appears to be a division of the Chinese army. The company even included a possible physical address for the division, and estimated the number of people involved and the infrastructure used. Mandiant believes that APT1 has been operating since 2006, and that over the course of 6 years it has managed to steal terabytes of data from at least 141 organizations. The victim organizations are primarily located in English-speaking countries. No doubt these massive attacks would not have been possible without real support from hundreds of people and a developed, modern infrastructure. This is definitely not the first time that China has faced accusations of its involvement of cyberattacks against government agencies and organizations in countries around the world. And there is nothing particularly surprising about the Chinese government’s firm rejection of the assertions made in the Mandiant report. Note that up till now, no country has ever claimed responsibility for any cyberespionage attack, or has admitted to involvement in cyberespionage under pressure from public or agency evidence. TeamSpy In March 2013, information was published about the latest in a line of complex attacks targeting high-ranking politicians and human rights advocates in the CIS and Eastern Europe. The operation was dubbed “ TeamSpy ,” as the remote admin program TeamViewer was used by the attackers to control victim computers. The main objective of this attack was to gather information from user computers, starting with screenshots and ending with copies of .pgp files, including passwords and encryption keys. Even though the tools used in the TeamSpy operation — and even the operation itself — didn’t seem all that sophisticated or professional compared to the Red October operation, the TeamSpy attacks were also successful. Stuxnet 0.5 Incidents that require months of persistent effort to investigate are relatively rare in the antivirus industry. Even rarer are events that remain relevant even three years after they take place — like the detection of Stuxnet, for example. Although this worm has been studied by numerous antivirus companies, there are still many modules that have barely been examined, if at all. It is important to remember that there were several version of Stuxnet, and that the earliest of them appeared back in 2009. Experts suggested several times that there were (or still are) even earlier versions of this worm, although there was no hard evidence. But in the end, those assertions were confirmed. In late February, Symantec published a study on a new “old” version of the worm — Stuxnet 0.5. This version turned out to be the earliest known modification of Stuxnet, and was active between 2007 and 2009. Furthermore, this version had some very interesting characteristics: First of all, it was created on the same platform as Flame, not Tilded like subsequent Stuxnet modifications. Second, the worm spread using infected files generated with Simatic Step 7 , and did not contain any exploits for Microsoft products. Third, Stuxnet 0.5 was no longer proliferated after July 4, 2009 . Finally, it was Stuxnet 0.5 that featured complete compatibility with Siemens 417 PLC (later versions of the work did not have this feature in full). The results of the study of Stuxnet version 0.5 have provided more information about this malicious program in general. It’s likely that we will find out even more information in the future. The same can be said about examples of cyberweapons detected after Stuxnet, as well as malware used in cyberespionage — there’s a lot we still don’t know. Targeted attacks Attacks against Tibetan and Uyghur activists In the first quarter of 2013, targeted attacks continued against Tibetan and Uyghur activists. In order to achieve their goals, the attackers used everything at their disposal, and users of Mac OS X, Windows, and Android were subjected to attacks. In January-February, Kaspersky Lab detected a substantial increase in the number of targeted attacks on Uyghurs using Mac OS X. All of these attacks used the CVE-2009-0562 vulnerability, which was patched by Microsoft nearly four years ago. The exploit for this vulnerability was sent out in MS Office documents, which were easy to recognize from the “captain” author tag. If the exploit was successfully executed, a backdoor for Mac OS X was downloaded in the form of a Mach-O file. This small backdoor has a very specific function: it installs another backdoor and a program that steals personal data (contacts). Kaspersky Lab recorded the attacks against the Tibetan activists in mid-March 2013. This time, the attackers used the exploit mentioned above (CVE-2013-0640 — previously used in ItaDuke attacks) to get around the sandbox in Acrobat Reader X and infect the targeted computers. In late March 2013, users of Android devices also fell victim to this wave of attacks. After the inbox of a well-known Tibetan activist was hacked, mailings from his address started coming out with an APK file attachment, which turned out to be a malicious program for Android (Kaspersky Lab products have labeled it Backdoor.AndroidOS.Chuli.a). This threat stealthily notifies its command server of a successful infection, and then begins to collect data stored on the device: contacts, call logs, text messages, GPS data and device information. Then the malware encrypts the stolen data using Base64 and uploads it to the command server. Kaspersky Lab’s investigation of the command server shows that the attackers speak Chinese. Just a few days after the results of our study were published, research organization The Citizen Lab published the results of its study of a similar incident. The target of the attack were people who were in one way or another associated with Tibet or Tibetan activists, and the malicious program that was used has a similar function (stealing personal information), but is an infected version of the Kakao Talk messenger. Hacking corporate networks Unfortunately, the first quarter of the year turned out to be chock full of incidents involving hacked corporate infrastructures and password leakages. Victims included Apple, Facebook, Twitter, and Evernote, among others. In early February, Twitter made an official announcement that malicious users had managed to steal user data (including hash passwords) from 250,000 members of the social network. Two weeks later, Facebook issued a statement that the computers of several of the company’s staff members had been infected by exploits during visits to a mobile developer site. Facebook described this as a sophisticated, targeted attack, noting that the goal was to penetrate Facebook’s corporate network. Luckily, company representatives stated that Facebook was able to avoid any leakage of user information. Just a few days later, Apple announced that several company employees had fallen victim to the very same attack while visiting a website for mobile developers. Apple’s data showed that no data leakages had taken place. In early March, Evernote reported that their internal network had been hacked and that malicious users had attempted to gain access to their data. In 2011, we witnessed mass hacking of various companies and mass user data leakages. It might seem like these attacks all came to nothing — but not so! Malicious users remain as interested as ever in hacking large companies and getting their hands on confidential data, including user information. Mobile threats Kaspersky Lab’s report on the evolution of threats targeting smartphones, tablets, and other mobile devices in 2012 was published in February 2013. Our data shows that in 2012 Android became the number-one target among virus writers, and that the number of threats over the course of the year grew steadily. Has this upswing in the number of mobile threats continued in 2013 so far? Indeed it has. A few numbers January is traditionally a quiet month for mobile virus writers — “only” 1,262 new modifications appeared in the first month of the year. But over the past few months, Kaspersky Lab has detected over 20,000 new mobile malware modifications. In February, we detected 12,044 mobile malware modifications, and another 9,443 in March. To compare — a total of 40,059 modifications of malicious programs targeting mobile devices were detected over the whole of 2012. SMS Trojans, which send unauthorized text messages to short, premium-rate numbers, are still the most prevalent category of mobile threats and currently represent 63.6% of all attacks. A total of 99.9% of new mobile threat detections target the Android platform. According to KSN data, the Top 20 most commonly used malicious or potentially unwanted programs for Android are: Rank Name % of all attacks 1 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.FakeInst.a 29,45% 2 Trojan.AndroidOS.Plangton.a 18,78% 3 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Opfake.a 12,23% 4 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Opfake.bo 11,49% 5 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Agent.a 3,43% 6 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Agent.u 2,54% 7 RiskTool.AndroidOS.AveaSMS.a 1,79% 8 Monitor.AndroidOS.Walien.a 1,60% 9 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.FakeInst.ei 1,24% 10 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Agent.aq 1,10% 11 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Agent.ay 1,08% 12 Trojan.AndroidOS.Fakerun.a 0,78% 13 Monitor.AndroidOS.Trackplus.a 0,75% 14 Adware.AndroidOS.Copycat.a 0,69% 15 Trojan-Downloader.AndroidOS.Fav.a 0,66% 16 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.FakeInst.ee 0,55% 17 HackTool.AndroidOS.Penetho.a 0,54% 18 RiskTool.AndroidOS.SMSreg.b 0,52% 19 Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Agent.aa 0,48% 20 HackTool.AndroidOS.FaceNiff.a 0,43% First place this past quarter goes to Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.FakeInst.a (29.45%). This threat targets primarily Russian speaking Internet users attempting to download software for Android devices from dubious sites. Often, cybercriminals use these websites to spread malware under the guise of useful software. (18.78%), an adware Trojan ranked second. This threat is seen primarily in European countries, where it is used by the developers of free software to monetize products by displaying ads. Third and fourth place both went to SMS Trojans from the Opfake family: Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Opfake.a (12.23%) and Trojan-SMS.AndroidOS.Opfake.bo (11.49%). The first modifications of the Opfake family of threats were disguised as the latest version of Opera, a popular mobile browser. Today, the malicious programs in this family are disguised as new versions of other popular apps (Skype, Angry Birds, etc.). Incidents We would like to touch on two of the most interesting virus incidents of the first quarter this year: a new threat going by the name of Perkele or Perkel, which hunts for mTANs, and the MTK botnet. Another important event that took place this past quarter was the targeted attacks against Android users that we addressed above. Perkel During the first two weeks of March, the well-known journalist Brian Krebs detected information on underground Russian-language forums about a new banking Trojan targeting mobile devices and allegedly affecting users in 69 countries. As rumor had it, the new threat had already infected no small number of devices. Krebs suggested that this Trojan was created by Russian speaking virus writers, since the combination of tools used to create it are made available on Russian-language forums. This news naturally drew the attention of antivirus professionals, but no examples of the software were available for a while. Several days later, the first modifications of Perkel were detected. After Kaspersky Lab performed an analysis, it became clear that there were some new additions to the family of malicious programs designed to teal text messages containing mTANs. The functions seen in the Perkel family are typical of this group, with two exceptions: Perkel tends to use text messages rather than HTTP to communicate with the command server and upload stolen data (in addition to text messages with mTANs, the threat also collects information about the infected device). The threat is capable of performing self-updates by downloading a new copy of itself from a remote server. The MTK Botnet In mid-January, word came out about the existence of a botnet that had infected up to one million Android devices owned primarily by Chinese users. As it turned out, the spread of a malicious program in China was at the root of the botnet (Kaspersky Lab has dubbed this malicious program Trojan.AndroidOS.MTK). It spread via unofficial Chinese app stores with popular, cracked games. In addition to stealing information about the infected smartphone, user contact data and messages, threats in this family also hype up a variety of apps. To do so, the Trojans stealthily download and install apps on the victim’s mobile device, and then give that app the highest possible rating in the app store. Then, they report their actions to a remote server. The number of apps for Android is constantly on the rise, and it is often a challenge to gain popularity with users — which is why these illegitimate tactics are becoming all the more common. TurkTrust’s certificates revoked In the first quarter of 2013, we saw yet another incident involving root certificates . Microsoft, Mozilla, and Google all revoked two root certificates issued by the certificate authority TurkTrust, thus removing them from their respective browser databases. As it turned out, TurkTrust had released redundant root certificates to two organizations in place of typical SSL certificates. They could be used to make SSL certificates for any resource on the Internet, and the browsers used to access these resources would accept these certificates as ‘trusted’. In December, Google found that one of the certificates issued by TurkTrust SSL for *.google.com had been involved in a “man-in-the-middle” type attack. Naturally, the fact that Google had been attacked meant that the certificates issued in the same way could be involved in attacks against other companies. This latest in a line of major incidents related to root certificates and trust issues has shown that the malicious use of legitimate certificates remains a critical problem. However, the malicious usage of these types of certificates has only ever been identified after the fact, as currently there are no effective means of preventing these types of incidents at this time. Statistics em>All statistical data used in the report has been obtained from the cloud-based Kaspersky Security Network (KSN). The statistics were acquired from KSN users who consented to share their local data. Millions of users of Kaspersky Lab products in 213 countries take part in the global information exchange on malicious activity.
'Operation Oceansalt' Reuses Code from Chinese Group APT1 A recently observed cyber-espionage campaign targeting South Korea, the United States and Canada is reusing malicious code previously associated with state-sponsored Chinese group APT1, McAfee reports. Exposed in a Mandiant report in 2013 and also known as Comment Crew, APT1 was thought to be a unit of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and was considered both one of the most persistent of China's cyber threat actors and highly prolific in terms of the quantity of information it had stolen. The newly observed campaign is unlikely the work of APT1, which has remained silent ever since the Mandiant report half a decade ago. Previously, the group had launched cyber-attacks on more than 141 U.S. companies from 2006 to 2010. Dubbed Oceansalt, the malware implant used in the new campaign shows code similarities with a tool employed by APT1, namely Seasalt. This means that the actor behind the new operation had direct access to Comment Crew’s source code, although it was never made public. McAfee’s report (PDF) on Oceansalt doesn’t provide a clear answer on who is behind these attacks, but notes that the code overlap could suggest that another group had access to the original code, or that it is a case of code-sharing between actors. Of course, it could also be a “false flag” operation. McAfee’s security researchers discovered that Oceansalt was launched in five attack waves adapted to the targets. While the first two attacks were spearfishing-based and used malicious Korean-language Microsoft Excel documents to download the implant, the third switched to Microsoft Word documents instead. Waves four and five targeted a small number of entities outside of South Korea, including the U.S. and Canada. During the attacks, the hackers used multiple command and control (C&C) servers, showing that the campaign is active in countries such as Canada, Costa Rica, the United States, and the Philippines. Oceansalt and Seasalt, McAfee notes, not only contain two exact same strings (Upfileer and Upfileok), but also show similarities in command handler and index table, and execute their capabilities in the same way. Furthermore, both use the exact same response codes to indicate the success or failure of command execution. Both implants use the same codes for drive and file reconnaissance, and for the creation of reverse-shells (which are based on cmd.exe). Unlike Seasalt, however, Oceansalt uses an encoding and decoding mechanism, and a hardcoded control server address, but employs no persistence method. According to McAfee, evidence that suggests code-sharing between Oceansalt authors and Comment Crew include the different mechanism for getting the C&C IP addresses, as well as the lack of reverse-shell capability in some Oceansalt samples, the presence of debug strings in Oceansalt, and the presence of new functions in one Oceansalt variant. The implant, the researchers reveal, packs a broad range of capabilities to capture data from the victims’ machines, but it is only a first-stage component, with additional stages downloaded through commands. The malware, however, provides operators with the ability to perform various actions on the system. Oceansalt includes support for a dozen commands: extract drive information, send information about a specific file, execute a command line using WinExec(), delete file, create file, get information on the running processes, terminate process, create/operate/terminate reverse shell, and test receive and send capabilities. “Our research shows that Comment Crew’s malware in part lives on in different forms employed by another advanced persistent threat group operating primarily against South Korea. This research represents how threat actors including nation-states might collaborate on their campaigns,” McAfee concludes. Related: Researchers Say Code Reuse Links North Korea's Malware Related: 'GreyEnergy' Cyberspies Target Ukraine, Poland (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Lessons from Mandiant’s APT1 Report Last week Mandiant released a powerful report that exposed what certainly appears to be a state-sponsored hacking initiative from China, dubbed by Mandiant as APT1. If you haven’t already, I highly encourage you to read the full report available here. The report not only provides analysis of the organization behind the attacks, but also includes a wealth of detail into specific techniques used by the groups as well as indicators that you can use in your own security practices. In this article I will summarize some of the key indicators as well as some of the techniques that may help you find other indicators of advanced attacks in your network. 3,000 Indicators It was certainly heartwarming to see Mandiant release a large number of very specific indicators of APT1 that security teams can put to good use. Far too often, a security vendor will report about how they uncovered a breach, but often lack the details that would help real infosec professionals to better do their job. In this report, Mandiant has done the industry a solid by disclosing a variety of very specific indicators that they have been able to tie to APT1, including domains used by the attacking infrastructure, SSL certificates used to encrypt the attacker’s traffic, MD5 hashes of APT1 malware and a variety of other open-source “indicators of compromise”. This provides very actionable information, but information that we all have to realize will also very short-lived. Given the sophistication of the APT1 organization, it’s quite likely that the referenced domains, hashes and certificates that were exposed have been decommissioned or will be soon. The indicators of compromise delve more deeply into the techniques of the attackers as opposed to certs and domain, which are effectively disposable. Patterns and Techniques Beyond the easily identifiable indicators, the Mandiant report provided insight into the lifecycle of an APT1 attack from the initial infection, escalation and ongoing theft of data. First, as one might expect, APT1 used highly targeted spear-phishing techniques to infect a target, which included creating fake email accounts in the name of someone that the target would recognize. Secondly, the infecting files were often zipped to avoid analysis and often contained executables designed to look like pdfs. This provides two important lessons – one technical and one practical. First, it means that when looking for advanced malware, we absolutely must look within zipped payloads. But secondly, it destroys the all-to-common idea of malware infections being the source of the “stupid user”. That’s not to say that “stupid users” don’t exist and that they don’t lead to malware infections – they certainly do on both counts. But the point is rather that highly targeted phishing can be constructed to fool even savvy well-trained users, and we can’t rely on training to solve the problem on its own. Instead, we need to proactively test and analyze content to programmatically determine if it is malicious or benign. The report also shared that once the infection was established, the attackers would often rely on RDP (remote desktop protocol) to administer the ongoing attack. This protocol is obviously highly common on enterprise networks and allows the attacker to control the compromised machine remotely. RDP has been strongly linked to advanced attacks shared in a variety of other reports, including this year’s Verizon Data Breach Report. The lesson here is pretty clear – RDP and related protocols are one of the key tools of persistent attacks and security teams to have strict control over RDP, limiting its use to only the few users who must have it, and requiring two-factor authentication for RDP users. APT1 also used a myriad of techniques to hide its communications with command-and-control servers. This included sharing data via HTTP, custom protocols written by the attackers, and a variety of modified protocols designed to look like normal application traffic, such as MSN Messenger, Gmail Calendar, and Jabber (a protocol used in a variety of instant messaging applications). All of these traffics were often used in conjunction with SSL to further obscure the traffic. This again highlights the need to look within SSL-encrypted traffic as well as the need to find customized traffic and unusual traffic that deviates from protocol. This is an emerging art, but certainly possible using firewalls and threat prevention solutions that finely decode network and application protocols. Once it was time to steal data, the attackers predominantly relied on FTP. As with the infecting file, exfiltrated data was often compressed, this time mostly with RAR. FTP is very popular with malware because it is small, flexible and often allowed in networks. However, security teams should remember to closely analyze FTP and certainly take a closer look at FTP used to transport RAR files. Learn to See What Doesn’t Belong While the Mandiant report is incredibly illuminating, it is also not a panacea. If anything, the more we learn about sophisticated attacks the more it is obvious that security products will never be enough without security skill. Certainly, we will continue to need and use signatures and systems that can automatically block the bad things on our networks. But it is also equally clear that this alone won’t be enough. We need to actively seek out and test the unknowns in our network, whether that is anomalous traffic or unknown, potentially malicious files. We need to know the application fingerprint of our networks and users so that we can see when something is amiss. Security is fast becoming the front-lines for enterprises and one of the most strategic roles in any organization, but it requires us to be actively and intellectually engaged. That is a daunting task, but one we can meet. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Wade Williamson is Director of Product Marketing at Vectra Networks. Prior to joining Vectra, he was a Senior Threat Researcher at Shape Security. He has extensive industry experience in intrusion prevention, malware analysis, and secure mobility. He has extensive speaking experience having delivered the keynote for the EICAR malware conference and led the Malware Researcher Peer Discussion at RSA. Prior to joining Shape, he was Sr. Security Analyst at Palo Alto Networks where he led the monthly Threat Review Series and authored the Modern Malware Review. He has also led the product management team at AirMagnet where he helped to develop a variety of security and network analysis tools targeted to WiFi networks. He has been a steady and active researcher of new threats and techniques used to compromise enterprise networks and end-users. Previous Columns by Wade Williamson:Being the Adult in the RoomBringing Cybersecurity to the Data Center Firmware, Controllers, and BIOS: Subterranean Malware BluesJuly 2016: A Perfect Vulnerability StormDon't Become a Cybersecurity Data Pack Rat 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: INDUSTRY INSIGHTS Network Security
Lockheed: Attackers Went Quiet After APT1 Report Exposed Chinese Hackers Lockheed Martin Says Attackers Went Quiet After Mandiant's APT1 Report Called Out Chinese Cyber Spies Threat actors targeting Lockheed Martin immediately halted their cyberattacks against the defense contractor following the release of Mandiant’s APT1 report, Lockheed executives said Wednesday. In February 2013, Mandiant released its bold, unprecedented report that made direct allegations and exposed a multi-year, massive cyber state-sponsored espionage campaign from a unit of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The threat actor group, dubbed APT1 by FireEye-owned Mandiant, is alleged to be one of the most persistent of China's cyber threat actors, which the security firm claims has “systematically stolen hundreds of terabytes of data” from at least 141 organizations. However, as Mandiant explained in a follow-up report released in May 2013, the threat actors immediately began curtailing their attacks after being called out and began to shift techniques, something that Lockheed witnessed in its own environment. “Since the Mandiant report came out, we saw an immediate decrease in attacks,” Charles “Charlie” Croom, VP of Cyber Strategy and Government Relations at Lockheed Martin Information Systems & Global Solutions, told SecurityWeek. “I think all our strategic partners saw that,” he said. Speaking to SecurityWeek at the company’s Global Vision Center in Arlington, Virginia, Croom said the adversary that Mandiant exposed was one that a number of companies, including Lockheed Martin, had been tracking for over a year. “We were familiar with this adversary, and were familiar with their tactics and procedures,” he said. “Because of the characteristics of the attacks, and who they are attacking, we know who the team is,” Croom said. While Mandiant’s report was met with criticism by some, particularly around the challenges of attribution, it’s clear that the report had a significant impact and triggered a reaction from the alleged state sponsored threat actors. “We’re glad Mandiant stood up,” Croom said. “[The report] was a trigger point”, Darrell Durst, VP of Cyber Solutions at Lockheed Martin, said during a panel discussion at the Lockheed Martin Defense and Intelligence Technology Media Summit on Wednesday. “Things were dying down even before the report came out, but you could clearly see a shift in actions.” Targeting Suppliers While not necessarily as a result of the APT1 report, Croom, who while in the U.S. Air Force served as Director of the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) and Commander of the Joint Task Force for Global Network Operations, said that Lockheed’s hardened IT security infrastructure is forcing some attackers to find other means to attack. “The good news is that they are not attacking Lockheed Martin any more because we are too hard, so they are going to our suppliers,” he said. “The threat over the last ten years has gotten extremely aggressive,” Durst said. “[Attackers] are actually being very strategic in where it is that they want to get the information and how they are going to go about doing that.” “They will wait,” Durst said, adding that attackers will take their time in order to get in and achieve their objectives. “They will go to a supplier who has the connection to Lockheed Martin from an IT perspective, or even in a sharing of documentation,” Durst said. While Durst says the defense giant has been successful in thwarting a number of attackers, he said new adversaries with new techniques continue to emerge and campaigns continue to increase. “We have seen a number of the adversaries gone quiet,” he said. “I think we have successfully been able to counter a number of adversaries relative to our networks." While some attackers may have gone quiet, the company does not believe they have gone away for good, but have rather shifted tactics. “Even if it were two years, that’s not necessarily an indication that they have gone away,” Durst said. “We are assuming they are taking a different approach,” said Tim Reardon, Vice President and General Manager Lockheed’s Defense & Intelligence Solutions group. While Lockheed did not specify the tactics used against them by the APT1 attackers, Mandiant’s report explained that the group used highly targeted spear-phishing techniques to infect a target, which included creating fake email accounts in the name of someone that the target would recognize. When asked if they were able to trace the attacks back to China, Croom reiterated the company’s policy of non-attribution. “We’re interested more in their attributes, and how their attributes can reveal them coming into our network so that we can spot them and kick them out.” Related Reading: Cyber Espionage Campaign Targeting Supply Chain Through Precision 'Hit and Run' Attacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Security Infrastructure Management & Strategy
Unit In China's PLA Behind Massive Cyber Espionage Operation: Report APT1: Mandiant Exposes One of China's Most Active Cyber Espionage Units In a fascinating, unprecedented, and statistics-packed report, security firm Mandiant made direct allegations and exposed a multi-year, massive cyber espionage campaign that they say with confidence is the work of China, more specifically, a unit of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Mandiant has named the attack group “APT1”, what is likely a government-sponsored group that is one of the most persistent of China's cyber threat actors, and considered to be one of the most prolific in terms of quantity of information it has stolen. To further its claims that there are actual individuals behind the keyboard, Mandiant also revealed three “personas” that they say are associated with APT1 attacks. According to Mandiant’s investigations, APT1 has taken hundreds of terabytes of data from at least 141 organizations across many industries going as far back as 2006, but representing just a small fraction of the overall cyber espionage that APT1 has conducted. It was the massive scale and impact of APT1's operations that compelled Mandiant to write and publically release the report. Historically, Mandiant has said there was no way to determine the extent of China’s involvement in many attacks, but the firm now says it has enough evidence to confidently say that “the groups conducting these activities are based primarily in China and that the Chinese Government is aware of them.” While many firms steer away from publicly calling out China as a culprit in cyber attacks, Mandiant is taking a stance and boldly pointing fingers at China, and bringing many statistics and research to back its case. “It is time to acknowledge the threat is originating in China, and we wanted to do our part to arm and prepare security professionals to combat that threat effectively.” “The issue of attribution has always been a missing link in publicly understanding the landscape of APT cyber espionage. Without establishing a solid connection to China, there will always be room for observers to dismiss APT actions as uncoordinated, solely criminal in nature, or peripheral to larger national security and global economic concerns.” Mandiant believes APT1 is the 2nd Bureau of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) General staff Department’s (GSD) 3rd Department, commonly known by its Military unit Cover Designator (MUCD) as Unit 61398. The security firm estimates that Unit 61398 is staffed by hundreds, or even thousands of people, and that China Telecom provided special fiber optic communications infrastructure for the unit. Additionally, Mandiant said that it conservatively estimates that APT1’s current attack infrastructure includes over 1,000 servers across dozens of countries. Mandiant said that it was able to confirm 937 command and control servers running on 849 distinct IP addresses and has confirmed 2,551 domain names attributed to APT1 in the last several years. “Our research and observations indicate that the Communist Party of China is tasking the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to commit systematic cyber espionage and data theft against organizations around the world,” the report alleged. When APT1 launches an attack against a target, it’s typically not a one shot deal or a quick hit. In fact, according to Mandiant’s research, APT1 maintained access to victim networks for an average of 356 days. The longest time period APT1 maintained access to a victim’s network was four years and ten months. In one operation, Mandiant witnessed APT1 steal 6.5 terabytes of compressed data from a single organization over a ten-month time period. APT1’s targets include organizations across a broad range of industries, mainly in the United States and other English-speaking countries. In over 97% of the 1,905 times Mandiant witnessed APT1 intruders connecting to their attack infrastructure, APT1 used IP addresses registered in Shanghai and systems set to use the Simplified Chinese language. “Once the group establishes access to a victim’s network, they continue to access it periodically over several months or years to steal large volumes of valuable intellectual property, including technology blueprints, proprietary manufacturing processes, test results, business plans, pricing documents, partnership agreements, emails and contact lists from victim organizations’ leadership,” the report explained. Hacking For Economic Gain and Advantage Mandiant’s investigations show that APT1 has targeted at least four of the seven strategic emerging industries that China identified in its 12th Five Year Plan, and warns that any industry related to China’s strategic priorities are potential attack targets. Mandiant highlighted an attack in 2008 that compromised the network of a company involved in a wholesale industry. According to Mandiant, over the next two and a half years, APT1 used various tools to steal an unknown number of files from the victim and repeatedly accessed the email accounts of several executives, including the conpany's CEO and General Counsel. During this same time period, news organizations reported that China had successfully negotiated a double-digit decrease in price per unit with the victim organization for one of its major commodities, Mandiant said. China continues to deny claims As usual, China denied that its Army had supported any kind of hacking activity. "Not only are reports that China's army has been involved in hacking unprofessional, they do not fit with the facts," China's defense ministry said in a statement to AFP. "Hacking attacks are a global problem. Like other countries, China also faces the threat of hacking attacks, and is one of the main countries falling victim to hacking attacks." China’s foreign ministry also reminded that China was itself a major victim, saying that most overseas cyberattacks against it originate in the US. Recent attacks against several high-profile US media outlets, Including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, and Bloomberg, as well as against Twitter and others, have further raised concerns over Chinese hackers. In late January, The New York Times said hackers stole corporate passwords and targeted the computers of 53 employees including former Beijing bureau chief Jim Yardley, who is now the South Asia bureau chief at the Times based in India, after the newspaper published a report on the vast wealth amassed by Premier Wen Jiabao's family. Mandiant was hired to investigate the attacks against The Times. While Mandiant hopes its efforts will lead to increased understanding and coordinated action in countering targeted cyber attacks, it also acknowledged that releasing this report has put itself somewhat at risk. “We are acutely aware of the risk this report poses for us,” Mandiant noted. “We expect reprisals from China as well as an onslaught of criticism.” In addition to the detailed report, Mandiant provided more than 3,000 APT1 indicators of compromise, including domain names, IP addresses, X.509 encryption certificates and MD5 hashes of malware used by APT1's attackers, in order to help organizations identify and defend against APT1 operations. The full report from Mandiant can be found here (PDF), and the Appendix and 3,000+ APT1 Indicators can be found here (.zip). Mandiant also provided a video showing actual APT1 activity which is embedded below. This report is likely to be one of the most important reports of the year and should be required reading for any information security professional—or if it were up to me, everyone within an organization. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Tracking & Law Enforcement Security Infrastructure
China's APT1 Changing Tactics, Rebuilding: Mandiant It appears the Chinese cyber-espionage crew behind attacks on as many as 100 businesses is cutting back on some of its attacks and looking for alternative tools, Mandiant said. Back in February, Mandiant released a 74-page report with loads of information on the group, dubbed APT1, including its attack methods, operational methodology, and organizations it had previously infiltrated. The report accused APT1 of retrieving hundreds of terabytes of stolen data. Even if APT1 wasn't an official entity within the Chinese government, the report made a strong case that the government was at least aware of its operations. Since the publication of the report, the group may have had to change some of its methods, Mandiant said in a follow-up report this week. The original report included more than 3,000 APT1 indicators used by APT1, including domain names, 832 IP addresses, 13 digital certificates used to encrypt data, and MD5 hashes of over malware. Recent analysis indicates they are still active, but they are changing their methods. "APT1 is still active using a well-coordinated and well-defined attack methodology against a wide set of industries -- with a discernible post-report shift towards new tools and infrastructure," wrote Dan Mcwhorter, Mandiant's managing director for threat intelligence. The report was the first time a private sector company had laid out evidence to link the China to cyber-espionage campaigns against businesses and government entities around the world. APT1 relied on social engineering methods, remote access tools, and more than 40 malware families to carry out their operations, the original report said. The report's goal was to make it harder to the group to carry out their attacks and slow them down, since organizations now knew what to look for in their logs and network traffic. It appears to have had some effect, as the information "hindered APT1's operations," Mcwhorter wrote. "APT1 has stopped using the vast majority of the infrastructure that was disclosed with the release of the indicators," Mcwhorter wrote. The group has not been knocked out yet, as it probably still has access to an extensive infrastructure of computers around the world. While there was speculation that Mandiant's publication of APT1 indicators would have resulted in the group dismantling itself, the follow-up reports indicates that is not the case. Mandiant noted that APT1 is only one of more than 20 Advanced Persistent Threat groups operating out of China that the company is aware of. Mandiant's report disrupted only APT1, not the others. "Mandiant has observed no significant changes in their operations," the follow-up report said. Related Reading: Lessons from Mandiant's APT1 (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Fahmida Y. Rashid is a Senior Contributing Writer for SecurityWeek. She has experience writing and reviewing security, core Internet infrastructure, open source, networking, and storage. Before setting out her journalism shingle, she spent nine years as a help-desk technician, software and Web application developer, network administrator, and technology consultant.Previous Columns by Fahmida Y. Rashid:Emissary Panda Hackers Get Selective in Data HeistsFinancial Firms Embrace Cloud With Encryption, Tokenization: ReportUnited Airlines Hack Highlights Need for Improved Information SharingCISOs Challenged in C-Suite: ReportCyber Attack on Power Grid Could Top $1 Trillion in Damage: Report Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Incident Response Malware Tracking & Law Enforcement Security Infrastructure
Chinese Whispers, Chinese Lies: Analyzing Mandiant's APT1 Report In the weeks since the Mandiant APT1 Report was released, the conclusions presented by Mandiant have been extensively repeated and commented on by pretty much everyone. Worryingly, the narrative was accepted almost unequivocally, brushing aside many inconsistencies and disregarding any opposing interpretations. In the case of most of the commentators, it appeared they had either only briefly skipped through or not even read the original report. What struck me and many others as most suspicious, were the glaring operational security lapses that this supposedly “highly professional” hacking group seems to have made over the course of several years. Most obvious is the continued use of the “hugesoft.org” domain name. We are meant to believe that a covert, special operations team member was allowed to bring with him a tainted domain from his civilian, cybercrime days. What that would indicate is that in this vast, huge group (Mandiant alleges several hundred or even thousands) no one knows anything about operational security procedures, such as executing regular reviews for example, that would and should have eventually made the Comment Crew themselves aware of these smoking guns. The group evidently has sufficient knowhow and is able to use OSINT to construct targeted attacks and provide them with situational awareness to operate, yet appears to be unable to cover their tracks. We are also told that APT1 was so careless or brazen, depending on the interpretation, that they habitually entered partially correct information for domain registration data, even using email addresses that could be Google’d or traced using OSINT methods. Not consistently though – only sometimes. At other times, they made them up. The analysis of the WHOIS records by Mandiant was hilarious. On Page 47 (PDF), we are treated to the ludicrous assumption that the spelling, of all things, of the fake registry information is of any consequence. All it shows is that whoever did it did not care about the accuracy of the contents of a fake dns registration. Because it’s fake, duh. Mandiant’s conclusion is again, comical: Overall, the combination of a relatively high number of “Shanghai” registrations with obviously false registration examples in other registrations suggests a partially uncoordinated domain registration campaign from 2004 until present, in which some registrants tried to fabricate non-Shanghai locations but others did not. Uncoordinated DNS registration campaign – where some registrants fabricated fake data and others did not. What is that even supposed to mean? An “uncoordinated campaign” is something of an oxymoron anyway. The report lists many domains that were spotted by Mandiant. The only problem is that they are consolidated, and not listed or sorted in any way that allow a 3rd party to recognize in which context, constellation and grouping they were actually originally identified. This is disingenuous, because it means that it is not transparent whether the attribution of all of these to one individual group is correct, or if there were other patterns within the individual incidents. Essentially, the veracity of the claim that all of these domains belong to one group is something we have seen no actual evidence for. It is based solely on word of mouth. Of course, many of these can be verified by other 3rd parties, and has been done, but not all of them together. That can give the false impression that the Indicators of Compromise have been verified. The indicators tying the Comment Crew to PLA Group 61398 are also tenuous, so tenuous that if you plucked them with your finger, they would probably tear. The Information on PLA Group 61398 is undisputable. There is absolutely no doubt that this group exists. What is in question however, is that the group identified (although even the evidence that the activity is solely of one group is questionable) as the Comment Crew are in fact one and the same. Mandiant provides nothing in hard evidence, instead stringing together coincidences and leaps of logic that would seem more at home on a conspiracy forum. Most of the characteristics that match (Page 59, Table 12, Matching Characteristics) between APT1 and Unit 61398 would apply almost to any active Hacking Group. It is like identifying a murderer by saying that murderers have 2 arms, 2 legs, and kill people, hence so-and-so did it. Even the geographical attribution is unreliable in the sense that there could be other hacking groups acting in such a vast and populated area, that has a population of over 5 million, is home to several thousand businesses and 2 universities. In the same vein, you could attribute any hack originating in London to the UK Ministry of Defense. These are the main points that the entire synopsis of the Mandiant Report hinges on. It is also worth pointing out that many of the subsequent conclusions are based on huge leaps of faith and many assumptions. In addition, much of the report is filled with information and OSINT sources that only corroborate and strengthen the evidence for the existence of the Comment Crew, and the existence of PLA Unit 61398, but not that they are indeed one and the same. There is one secondary indicator that has been made a great deal of. On page 52, the report cites an incident involving the actor identified as “Ugly Gorilla” in 2004, who asked a prominent Professor whether China had a “cyber army”. Whilst an interesting find, it really proves very little in the way of any association between “Ugly Gorilla” and the PLA, but keep a mental note of it, as we will revisit it later. I am a great believer in the principle of Occam’s Razor. Whatever hypothesis makes the least assumptions is the most likely. Applying that to many of the findings in the Mandiant Report and the narrative that was provided as an explanation seems prone to relying on too many assumptions. The problems identified with the report have not been entirely overlooked. Considering the obvious lapses in operational security that the alleged Comment Crew displayed even Mandiant has conceded in the meantime that the Crew is not China’s “A-Team”. No kidding, Sherlock! It is in fact well known that China has some operational offensive cyber-teams of a high caliber. In this of course, they are not alone. According to Mandiant: The main way I’d characterize them is speed. The best guys we see move fast. They operate on a time scale of minutes as opposed to hours, days or months. They do have more ability to write zero day exploits. Their custom tools are better coded. They have better discipline and better execution. You see them making far fewer mistakes as they carry out their mission, and they seem to have better reconnaissance. Once they’re in, they know what they need and they go after it quickly. Applying Occam’s razor here again: Why would the Chinese have these elite groups that appear to work without leaving anywhere near as many traces, and then instead let the B-List go on a rampage doing most of the work? Even if it is argued that it is a matter of resources, it seems unlikely that these teams would not, over time, train the others, or that Operational Security Procedures, Tools and Knowhow would be shared. When pressed if the Comment Crew were more “regimented” than a group of freelancers, Richard Bejtlich, the CEO of Mandiant retorts, “Other units are more regimented and have better opsec [or operational security,] and that’s why we didn’t talk about them.” It seems just a little bit as though Mandiant caught a Minnow, and back at the pub with each telling the arms go wider apart taking on the size of a pike. Not to trivialize the damage done, but one needs to keep in mind that the Comment Crew in particular used a lot of off-the-shelf tools and relied far less on 0days than the more sophisticated groups, not to mention the less than stellar OpSec, leaving a trail like bull in a China shop (obligatory pun intended). Even latest finding, of old blog entries from an individual purported to be a member of PLA Group 61398 and the Comment Crew, whilst sounding plausible at first glance makes you scratch your head in wonderment once you think about it. How was it possible that this individual was able to post this information on a public blog for so many years, without arousing the attention of his colleagues, superiors, or any of the other various organs of the Peoples Party that otherwise monitor and censor all else. Even project details are disclosed. There are examples of information being censored for far less. This is the problem when you are trying to match the evidence against a foregone conclusion. We like to compare this to solving a jigsaw puzzle, which is a bad analogy. You always know what a jigsaw puzzle looks like before, and just try to fit the pieces to make that picture. This is more like a riddle, where you are given clues that are meant to lead to the answer. I am not in any way saying that the good folks at Mandiant are up to anything sinister or are colluding with anyone , far from that. The release of the Indicators of Compromise were a boon to the entire community, and their technical ability is undoubtedly of the highest quality and caliber. But we are all human and cannot overcome our personal and innate preconceptions and preconceived notions. The technical work was excellent-- the drawing of conclusions less so. There are far too many assumptions there for it to be the most likely explanation. Occam’s razor states that these guys are not military grade. That is the only possible conclusion based on all the evidence there currently is. The foremost problem with the Mandiant report is that it relies on a view of China and the Chinese Cyber-Operations that has very little to do with situational conditions on the ground. It clings on to the stereotype of a regimented, centralized China with total top down control. If that China ever existed, that is certainly not the case now. If you have followed the news and reports coming out from China the past years, and especially the last months, you will have heard of widespread governmental and industrial and economic corruption. This corruption is endemic and the main driver behind the prolific hacking. The majority of the hackers are indeed freelancers, paid bonuses and fees for valuable information. There is evidence to support this, with instances of alleged Chinese government operations being found hosted side by side with criminal activities. Once again, a surefire sign that military or intelligence services operational security are not being followed by these kinds of threat actors. The risk of losing operational integrity is too high. Even the prevailing and popular theory that these freelancers are in the employ of the Chinese government is often incorrect and ignores the scale and specific Chinese character of the corruption. A recent report in the China Digital Times provides a behind the scenes look into how espionage and surveillance are used in internecine infighting in local, regional and possibly even national government, politics, and economics. It is a definite recommended must read. Espionage has become a tool of choice in China when doing business and a common weapon to get ahead in your career. Essentially, there are many, many parties who will make use of these types of services, the majority of them without any Peoples Party or PLA authority, or even their knowledge. Businesses competing in this environment will also use any means possible to get or stay ahead. In this environment, hackers can take on contracts from many of the parties participating in this activity, going either after specific targets or information, selling opportunistic pay data to multiple customers, or if the data is valuable enough, to the highest bidder. What this really means though, is that when the Chinese government states that it is not behind most of these attacks – it is possibly telling the truth. That the Chinese government has offensive cyber capabilities are not disputed – most governments now have these, or are planning on adding them. What is not a given is that all of this activity has been officially prompted or sanctioned. As well as commercial freelancers plying their trade to anyone willing to pay, there are dedicated groups financed and set up by unsanctioned individuals and interest groups, working specifically to further private interests. The line between government and private interests, due to the innate nature of the power structures in China, are often blurry to the point of being unrecognizable. One thing to note is that the hacking is also indiscriminate; they target each other as much as international targets. Add to this the fact that other actors, and other nation states amongst them, use china as a jumping –off point, and the result is pandemonium and chaos. It’s the wild, wild east. Coming back to the incident with “Ugly Gorilla” and his public query that some have interpreted as the possible first contact between the PLA and UG, it is just as likely that a private entity could have reached out and made contact. Amongst the many OSINT sources dug up so far in regards to the identified members of the Comment Crew, attempts at finding employment seem to figure prominently. That too indicates a burgeoning market for hackers for hire. If it was only the government employing hackers, publicly seeking work would seem moot. The reason then, why the Comment Crew, and such groups in general, are so successful; have perfected and evolved their infrastructure, techniques and toolsets; have been able to obtain the resources and longevity and maintain their focus in such a way that many observers think they are nation-state sponsored is because they have an economic environment that makes this possible. They are able to convert much of the data they exploit into hard cash and other income, and in a location like the industrial hub Pudong they have quick and easy access to office space, infrastructure, human resources, and as an added bonus occasionally get to rub shoulders with the national intelligence community at lunch. The same environmental factors that make Pudong attractive to the actual PLO Group 61398 would more than likely make it suited for similar operations, be they military and private. Ron Gula, the CEO of Tenable Network Security, remarked to me recently that it sounded reminiscent of the KGB Hackers, whose story is recounted in Clifford Stoll’s wonderful account of how he traced this group and singlehandedly invented the discipline of computer forensics, “The Cuckoo’s Egg”. The KGB Hackers were primarily a group of German hackers led by Karl Koch acting under the alias Hagbard. They spied for the KGB in the late 1980’s, targeting European and US defense installations and contractors. Supplied with Cash payments and drugs amongst other things by their Russian handlers, they were able to carry out hacks with all of their attention full time. Of course, the people supplying the money need not necessarily be from the government. Anyone with deep pockets and a need for the information available via these means will suffice. One may argue that my narrative has little evidence – to which I would counter that I have just as much as Mandiant. For that though, mine at least is based on situational awareness and a more realistic set of assumptions. Other commentators have come to similar conclusions as well. For the Chinese government the problem is that it cannot acknowledge this state of affairs publicly or officially – not just because they may lose face – but also because corruption is such a touchy subject and has become a major problem and social issue in the Peoples Republic. In addition, many of the interest groups that are benefitting from these activities have a stake in the government and judging by other behavior will work against any attempt to limit them. It remains to be seen if this activity will – or even can – be reined in by the Chinese government. It is questionable how much influence the leadership has on this behavior, or if it can do anything that will be effective at all, when it is so widespread, against intent and without official sanction anyway. The announced crackdown on corruption by the new leadership may be the best hope and may have more of an impact than targeting the hacking market by itself, should it prove to be a heartfelt attempt and be in any way effective. The danger in the meantime though, is that the incessant offensive activity originating out of Chinese cyberspace, whether state-sponsored or the result of criminals and corruption, will lead to an escalation and a cyber-arms race. Calling for international agreement on offensive operations in cyberspace will do little to curb the shadow activity emanating from China. The government will have to take serious and effective action or the economic repercussions will outweigh any benefits deriving from engaging in espionage, as well as the cost required to control it. It would also have the benefit of reducing the noise that currently allows other actors to use Chinese IP-Space as a decoy to hide their own tracks. So does this alternative interpretation change anything? Probably not for past, present and future victims. The Modus Operandi remains the same, and the primary concern for them is still damage limitation and the loss of data and competitiveness. But, it is relevant to policy makers and businesses intending on operating in China. It impacts how we have to interact with the Chinese government on this, and should also redefine our expectations. Related Reading: A Convenient Scapegoat - Why All Cyber Attacks Originate in China (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Oliver Rochford is Research Director at Tenable Network Security. Oliver is a recognized expert on threat and vulnerability management as well as cyber security monitoring and operations management. He previously worked as research director at Gartner. He has worked as a security practitioner and white hat hacker for Tenable Network Security®, HP Enterprise Security Services, Verizon Business, Secunia® (now Flexera Software), Qualys®, and Integralis (now part of NTT Com Security).Previous Columns by Oliver Rochford:Cyber War and the Compromise of Reliable Full DisclosureCryptocurrencies and the Revolution in Cybercrime EconomicsCybersecurity's Marketing DilemmaThe Myth of Security Enabling Your BusinessThe Three Pillars of Hypothesis-Driven Threat Defense 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare INDUSTRY INSIGHTS
China's APT1 Still Operating With the Same Modus Operandi According to researchers at Cyber Squared, the group APT1, as named by Mandiant earlier this year, is up to their same old tricks. Despite being outed after attacks against the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, they have not changed tactics. Two months ago, the APT1 group (a.k.a. “Comment Crew”) was the center of attention after being named in a Mandiant report. The intelligence firm was called in to investigate the security incidents the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, and in a report said that APT1 was the “...2nd Bureau of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) General staff Department’s (GSD) 3rd Department, commonly known by its Military unit Cover Designator (MUCD) as Unit 61398.” According to their report, Mandiant said that they were able to confirm 937 C&C servers, running on more than 800 distinct IP addresses. Further, the firm said that APT1 has had more than 2,500 domains attributed to them in the last several years. “Our research and observations indicate that the Communist Party of China is tasking the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to commit systematic cyber espionage and data theft against organizations around the world,” Mandiant’s report alleged. In the aftermath of that news cycle, it was expected that APT1 would disappear, or at the least they would shift gears and change their tactics, tools, and procedures (TPPs). As it turns out, that isn’t the case. “As of late April 2013, Chinese cyber espionage threat groups have clearly continued their activity. In the example given below, we will highlight that “Comment Crew” is still conducting exploitation operations. In fact, there has been little change,” a blog post by Cyber Squared explains. While it is possible that the group is also using newer capabilities, the post explains, that they haven’t stopped using the methods they’re known for is concerning. Cyber Squared postulated that the group may have achieved “a satisfactory balance of conducting successful exploitation operations” with their existing infrastructure and methods, while implementing additional evasion techniques. “The totality of evidence leads us to believe that that “Comment Crew” is still in the game and up to their old tricks, using familiar tactics to target their victims. The February disclosure appears to have done little to stem the onslaught of cyber espionage from this or other Chinese threat groups,” the post concluded. Additional details and the full report can be seen here. Related: Lessons from Mandiant’s APT1 Report (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Steve Ragan is a security reporter and contributor for SecurityWeek. Prior to joining the journalism world in 2005, he spent 15 years as a freelance IT contractor focused on endpoint security and security training.Previous Columns by Steve Ragan:Anonymous Claims Attack on IP Surveillance Firm Brickcom, Leaks Customer DataWorkers Don't Trust Employers with Personal Data: SurveyRoot SSH Key Compromised in Emergency Alerting SystemsMorningstar Data Breach Impacted 184,000 Clients Microsoft to Patch Seven Flaws in July's Patch Tuesday 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
FireEye Denies Hacking Back Against Chinese Cyberspies In his latest book, New York Times correspondent David Sanger describes how cybersecurity firm Mandiant hacked into the devices of Chinese cyberspies during its investigation into the threat group known as APT1. Mandiant, now owned by FireEye, published its famous report on APT1 back in 2013 when it was led by CEO Kevin Mandia. The company at the time released information apparently showing that the Chinese military had been conducting sophisticated cyber-espionage operations. In his book, “The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage, and Fear in the Cyber Age,” Sanger describes how he was allowed to watch Mandiant hack into the hackers’ systems. An excerpt of Sanger’s book shared on Twitter by Thomas Rid, a Professor of Strategic Studies at Johns Hopkins University, reads: “Ever resourceful, Mandia’s staff of former intelligence officers and cyber experts tried a different method of proving their case. They might not be able to track the IP addresses to the Datong Road high-rise itself, but they could actually look inside the room where the hacks originated. As soon as they detected Chinese hackers breaking into the private networks of some of their clients – mostly Fortune 500 companies – Mandia's investigators reached back through the network to activate the cameras on the hackers' own laptops. They could see their keystrokes while actually watching them at their desks. The hackers, just about all of them male and most in their mid twenties, carried on like a lot of young guys around the world. They showed up at work about eight-thirty a.m. Shanghai time, checked a few sports scores, emailed their girlfriends, and occasionally watched porn. Then, when the clock struck nine, they started methodically breaking into computer systems around the world, banging on the keyboards until a lunch break gave them a moment to go back to the scores, the girlfriends, and the porn. One day I sat next to some of Mandia's team, watching the Unit 61938 hacking corps at work; it was a remarkable sight. My previous mental image of PLA officers was a bunch of stiff old generals sitting around in uniforms with epaulets, reminiscing about the glory days with Mao. But these guys were wearing leather jackets or just undershirts [...].” In a statement published on Monday, FireEye admitted that Sanger was given access to the methods used by Mandiant to gather evidence of APT1’s ties to the Chinese military, but claims the reporter’s description “resulted in a serious mischaracterization of our investigative efforts.” “We did not do this, nor have we ever done this,” FireEye said regarding claims that its employees activated the cameras on the hackers’ own laptops. “To state this unequivocally, Mandiant did not employ ‘hack back’ techniques as part of our investigation of APT1, does not ‘hack back’ in our incident response practice, and does not endorse the practice of ‘hacking back.’” “Hacking back,” the term used to describe a cyberattack victim – or someone hired by the victim – hacking into the systems of the attacker, is a controversial practice and only few cybersecurity firms have admitted doing it. FireEye claims that what Sanger described as hacking back were actually video recordings of the attackers interacting with their malware command and control (C&C) servers. The firm has published one of the videos it presumably showed the reporter. “To someone observing this video ‘over the shoulder’ of one of our investigators, it could appear as live system monitoring. Nevertheless, Mandiant did not create these videos through ‘hacking back’ or any hacking activity. All of these videos were made through information obtained via consensual security monitoring on behalf of victim companies that were compromised,” FireEye explained. While some industry professionals have accepted FireEye’s explanation for obtaining data on the hackers’ personal online activities, Sanger’s claims that he saw APT1 members wearing leather jackets raises a lot of questions. FireEye has not specifically addressed this issue in its statement, but SecurityWeek is trying to obtain some clarifications from the company. In the meantime, experts have provided some more or less plausible explanations on how the reporter may have seen what he believed were the hackers. Richard Bejtlich, who worked for Mandiant and then FireEye between 2011 and 2017, including as Chief Security Strategist, has corroborated FireEye’s statement. ‘At no time when I worked for Mandiant or FireEye, or afterwards, was there ever a notion that we would hack into adversary systems,” Bejtlich wrote in a blog post. “During my six year tenure, we were publicly and privately a ‘no hack back’ company. I never heard anyone talk about hack back operations. No one ever intimated we had imagery of APT1 actors taken with their own laptop cameras. No one even said that would be a good idea.” Related: Chinese Whispers, Chinese Lies - Analyzing Mandiant's APT1 Report Related: Considering The Complexities of Hack Back Laws (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Tracking & Law Enforcement Cybercrime Management & Strategy
Researchers Identify Targeted Attacks in Australia Researchers at FireEye have identified a new targeted attack, currently hitting organizations in Australia, in order to deliver payloads designed to open remote access and steal information. The malware discovered by FireEye goes to several lengths to remain hidden, and uses a chained process to attack its victim. According to FireEye, the victims in this attack were hand picked, with the opening stage of the attack itself coming via email. The companies being targeted were selected for unknown reasons, but the attackers are using malicious URLs embedded within the emails that link to a C&C (Command and Control) domain that uses the name of the victim or the name of a current project that is being worked on as an attempt at legitimacy. Once the victim visits one of the C&C domains, the host revives instructions as “base64 encoded strings using a custom character set, which is further scrambled using a custom-scrambling algorithm,” FireEye reported. After that, a base64-encoded executable embedded in an HTML page is downloaded and ran on the host. “In our experiment, since the CnC was not responding, we supplied an encoded notepad.exe in the response. The malware successfully decoded notepad.exe and launched it as setup.exe on the compromised machine,” FireEye explained. “We have observed many variants of this malware; some even try sending hostname and IP address information back to its CnC as part of its User-Agent string in the GET request. One of the variants we observed had “IPhone 8.5” in the UA string, which we found interesting.” It’s worth mentioning that FireEye’s findings included a list of malware that was previously disclosed by Mandiant in their APT1 report. An indexed list of the APT1 malware can be seen here. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Steve Ragan is a security reporter and contributor for SecurityWeek. Prior to joining the journalism world in 2005, he spent 15 years as a freelance IT contractor focused on endpoint security and security training.Previous Columns by Steve Ragan:Anonymous Claims Attack on IP Surveillance Firm Brickcom, Leaks Customer DataWorkers Don't Trust Employers with Personal Data: SurveyRoot SSH Key Compromised in Emergency Alerting SystemsMorningstar Data Breach Impacted 184,000 Clients Microsoft to Patch Seven Flaws in July's Patch Tuesday 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Network Security NEWS & INDUSTRY
"Dust Storm" Attackers Target Japanese Critical Infrastructure Commercial and critical infrastructure organizations in Japan have been targeted in a multi-year campaign dubbed by researchers “Operation Dust Storm.” A report published on Tuesday by endpoint security firm Cylance details the activities of a threat group that has been active since at least 2010. The attackers have targeted various organizations in Japan, South Korea, the United States, Europe, and several Southeast Asian countries, and in 2015 they started focusing on Japanese organizations. The actor, which experts believe is a well-funded and well-organized group likely associated with a nation-state, relied on watering holes, spear phishing, unique backdoors and zero-day exploits to conduct reconnaissance and espionage. According to Cylance, the threat actor has breached the systems of Japanese organizations in the electricity generation, finance, construction, oil and natural gas, and transportation sectors. Experts reported that early Operation Dust Storm attacks were relatively unsophisticated and they were easily detected by the security industry. The group’s activities attracted the attention of researchers in 2011, when they used Adobe Flash Player (CVE-2011-0611) and Internet Explorer (CVE-2011-1255) zero-day vulnerabilities to deliver a piece of malware dubbed “Misdat.” In October 2011, the attackers leveraged news surrounding the Libyan crisis and the death of Muammar Gaddafi to target US defense organizations and Uyghurs. The following year, they leveraged another Internet Explorer zero-day (CVE-2012-1889) in their operations. In March 2013, shortly after Mandiant published a report on the notorious Chinese state-sponsored threat group known as APT1, experts noticed a significant drop in Operation Dust Storm activity until August 2013. Another noteworthy event took place in February 2014, when the actor started using a new Internet Explorer zero-day exploit (CVE-2014-0322) distributed via a watering hole set up on a software reseller’s website. In 2015, when it started focusing on Japan, Operation Dust Storm targeted various types of organizations, including an automaker, the Japanese subsidiary of a South Korean electric utility firm, and an oil and gas company. In addition to its previous tools, in May 2015, the group added several Android backdoors to its arsenal. These threats, designed to forward SMS messages and call information to a command and control (C&C) server, were used against victims in South Korea and Japan. The pieces of malware used in the first attacks were unsophisticated and easy to detect, but the more recent campaigns involved custom threats that largely evaded security products, Cylance said in its report. “At this time, [Cylance] does not believe the attacks were meant to be destructive or disruptive. However, our team believes that attacks of this nature on companies involved in Japanese critical infrastructure and resources are ongoing and are likely to continue to escalate in the future,” Cylance concluded. Related: Blue Termite APT Targets Japanese Organizations (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
+4 4 0 4 Votes Symantec Official Blog Hidden Lynx and MSS protection By: Jeannie Warner Symantec Employee Created 18 Sep 2013 1 Comment Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: On Tuesday September 17, 2013, Symantec’s Security Response organization published a whitepaper report on Hidden Lynx, a Chinese APT group of professional hackers with advanced capabilities. Evidence suggests that Hidden Lynx is a Chinese state sponsored hacker group with affiliations to “Operation Aurora”. This group was responsible for the compromise of security firm Bit9’s digital code-signing certificate, used to sign 32 pieces of malware. They have been involved in a number of operations over the last four years. The group offers a “hackers for hire” operation that is tasked with retrieving information from a wide range of corporate and government targets. They are a highly efficient team who can undertake multiple campaigns at once, breach some of the world’s best-protected organizations, and can quickly change their tactics to achieve their goal. They usually attack using multiple customized Trojans designed for specific purposes. Backdoor.Moudoor is used for larger campaigns and has seen widespread distribution, while Trojan.Naid is reserved for special operations against high value targets. The group uses cutting-edge attack techniques which makes this team stand out from other major attack groups. Symantec has been actively tracking this group since as early as 2009. THREAT DETAILS: The Hidden Lynx group has been in operation since at least 2009 and appears to be a professional organization that offers a “hackers for hire” type service. They have the capability to attack many organizations with concurrently running campaigns. They operate efficiently and move quickly and methodically. Based on these factors, the Hidden Lynx group would need to be a sizeable organization made up of between 50 and 100 individuals. The members of this group are experts at breaching systems. Their method for exploitation and pay-to-order targeted attacks involve a two-pronged strategy using two Trojans designed for each purpose: Team Moudoor distributes Backdoor.Moudoor, a customized version of “Gh0st RAT”, for large-scale campaigns across several industries. The distribution of Moudoor requires a sizeable number of people to both breach targets and retrieve the information from the compromised networks. Team Naid distributes Trojan.Naid, the Trojan found during the Bit9 incident, which appears to be reserved for more limited attacks against high value targets. This Trojan was leveraged for a special operation during the VOHO campaign and is probably used by a specific team of highly skilled attackers within the group. This Trojan was also found as part of “Operation Aurora” in 2009. Much of the attack infrastructure and tools used during these campaigns originate from China. The group makes use of regular zero-day exploits. They are methodical in their approach and they display a skillset far in advance of some other attack groups also operating in that region, such as the Comment Crew (also known as APT1). The Hidden Lynx group is an advanced persistent threat that has been in operation for at least four years and is breaking into some of the best-protected organizations in the world. With a zero-day attack already under their belt in 2013, they continue to operate at the leading edge of targeted attacks. TARGETS Since November 2011, hundreds of organizations worldwide have been targeted by the Hidden Lynx group. Top 10 organizations targeted by the Hidden Lynx group since November 2011. Countries/Regions targeted by the Hidden Lynx group since November 2011. MOTIVATION This broad range of targeted information would indicate that the attackers are part of a professional organization. They are likely tasked with obtaining very specific information that could be used to gain competitive advantages at both a corporate and nation state level. Corporate Espionage The financial services sector has been identified as the most heavily targeted industry overall. There is a tendency to target specific companies within this sector. Investment banks and asset management agencies account for the majority of organizations targeted within this industry. Attacks against Government Contractors In attacks that have targeted all levels of government from local to national level, this group has repeatedly attempted to infiltrate these networks. Attacks against government contractors and, more specifically, the defense industry indicate that the group is in pursuit of confidential information and suggests that the group had been working for nation states. WHAT ARE THEY CAPABLE OF? The Hidden Lynx group’s advanced capabilities are clearly demonstrated in three major campaigns. In the VOHO campaign, they showed how they could subvert Bit9’s established trust models. In the FINSHO campaign, they managed to get advanced knowledge of a zero-day exploit and in the SCADEF operation, they undertook supply chain attacks to succeed in their campaign. IMPACT: Despite the exposure of the Hidden Lynx Chinese APT Hacker group, Symantec believes they will continue their activities. Symantec will continue to monitor activities and provide protection against these attacks. We advise customers to use the latest Symantec technologies and incorporate layered defenses to best protect against attacks by groups like Hidden Lynx. SOC DETECTION CAPABILITIES: For customers with MSS IDS/IPS Security Management services, vendor-based signatures will be automatically deployed, as per the vendor’s recommendation. If you would like further information regarding the signature states on your devices, or would like to request the activation of a specific signature, please contact your Services Manager, or the Analysis Team can be reached by requesting help via phone, e-mail, or visiting the MSS portal at https://mss.symantec.com. For customers with monitor-only IDS/IPS devices, Symantec MSS stands ready to provide security monitoring for these vulnerabilities once your IDS/IPS vendor releases signatures and those signatures are enabled on your monitored devices. COMPONENTS AND DETECTION Backdoor.Moudoor – MSS Detection [MSS URL Detection] Backdoor.Moudoor Command and Control Communications Backdoor.Moudoor – Vendor Detection Symantec SEP/AV - Backdoor.Moudoor Trojan.Naid – MSS Detection [MSS URL Detection] Possible Trojan.Naid HTTP Request (Vector: CVE-2013-1493) [MSS URL Detection] Trojan.Naid Malware Callbacks Trojan.Naid – Vendor Detection Symantec SEP/AV - Trojan.Naid Trojan.Hydraq – MSS Detection MSS Hot IP Detection - Possible Trojan.Hydraq Traffic MSS Hot IP Detection - Trojan.Hydraq C&C Server MSS Hot IP Detection - Trojan.Hydraq Data Exfiltration Site MSS Hot IP Detection - Trojan.Hydraq Traffic Trojan.Hydraq – Vendor Detection SSIM - Possible Hydraq Activity Symantec SEP/AV - Trojan.Hydraq Snort/SourceFire - Trojan.Hydraq - Beaconing activity Trojan.Hikit – MSS Detection [MSS URL Detection] Backdoor.Hikit Command and Control Communications Trojan.Hikit – Vendor Detection Symantec SEP/AV - Trojan.Ascesso Backdoor.Vasport – MSS Detection [MSS URL Detection] Backdoor.Vasport Command and Control Communications Backdoor.Vasport – Vendor Detection Symantec SEP/AV - Backdoor.Vasport Backdoor.Boda - MSS Detection [MSS URL Detection] Possible Backdoor.Boda (“LadyBoyle”) Request to Command and Control Backdoor.Boda – Vendor Detection Snort/SourceFire - ET CURRENT_EVENTS Adobe Flash Zero Day LadyBoyle Infection Campaign Symantec Endpoint Protection (SEP) IPS Signatures: CVE-2011-3544: Web Attack: Oracle Java Rhino Script Engine CVE-2011-3544 3 detected Web Attack: Oracle Java Rhino Script Engine CVE-2011-3544 attack blocked CVE-2012-1875: Web Attack: MSIE Same ID Property CVE-2012-1875 attack blocked CVE-2012-1889: Web Attack: MSIE MSXML CVE-2012-1889 2 attack blocked Web Attack: MSIE MSXML CVE-2012-1889 3 detected Web Attack: MSIE MSXML CVE-2012-1889 detected CVE-2012-1723: Web Attack: Java CVE-2012-1723 RCE 2 detected Web Attack: Java CVE-2012-1723 RCE attack blocked Web Attack: Oracle Java SE CVE-2012-1723 Remote Code Execution Vulnerability 3 attack blocked Web Attack: Oracle Java Type Confusion Attack CVE-2012-1723 4 detected CVE-2013-1493: Web Attack: Java CVE-2013-1493 RCE 2 attack blocked Web Attack: Java CVE-2013-1493 RCE attack blocked McAfee AV: Viral Signatures: CVE-2012-1723: Java/CVE-2012-1723 Java/CVE-2012-1723!jar Java/CVE-2012-1723.CSU MITIGATION STRATEGIES AND RECOMMENDATIONS: Symantec recommends customers use a layered approach to securing their environment, utilizing the latest Symantec technologies, including Enterprise-Wide security monitoring from Edge to Endpoint. For technologies not monitored/managed by MSS, ensure all signatures are up to date, including endpoint technologies. Ensure all operating systems and public facing machines have the latest security patches, and antivirus software and definitions up to date. Ensure systems have a running firewall, unnecessary ports are closed/blocked, and unused services are disabled. Ensure staff is educated on Social Engineering and Phishing techniques. WHAT TO EXPECT FROM MSS: Symantec MSS SOC security analysts will continue to diligently monitor, analyse, and validate any events indicative of Hidden Lynx activity: Possible or suspect activity may be notified at a lower severity MSS will continue to perform ongoing refinement of detection MSS will continue to reach out to clients that may have had historical indicators of compromise unveiled due to new data REFERENCES Backdoor.Moudoor http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2012-100817-2451-99 Trojan.Naid http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2012-061518-4639-99 Trojan.Hydraq http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2010-011114-1830-99 Trojan.Hikit http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2012-082113-5541-99 Backdoor.Vasport http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2012-051606-5938-99 Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/hidden-lynx-professional-hackers-hire CVE-2012-1875 Exploited in the Wild - Part 1 (Trojan.Naid) http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/cve-2012-1875-exploited-wild-part-1-trojannaid Backdoor.Hikit: New Advanced Persistent Threat http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/backdoorhikit-new-advanced-persistent-threat Latest Java Zero-Day Shares Connections with Bit9 Security Incident http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/latest-java-zero-day-shares-connections-bit9-security-incident Adobe Zero-day Used in LadyBoyle Attack http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/aobe-zero-day-used-ladyboyle-attack Hydraq - An Attack of Mythical Proportions http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/hydraq-attack-mythical-proportions The Trojan.Hydraq Incident: Analysis of the Aurora 0-Day Exploit http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/trojanhydraq-incident-analysis-aurora-0-day-exploit The Trojan.Hydraq Incident http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/trojanhydraq-incident Trojan.Hydraq information http://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/trojanhydraq-information Bit9 and Our Customers' Security https://blog.bit9.com/2013/02/08/bit9-and-our-customers-security/ Bit9 Security incident update https://blog.bit9.com/2013/02/25/bit9-security-incident-update/ The Voho Campaign: An In Depth Analysis http://blogs.rsa.com/wp-content/uploads/VOHO_WP_FINAL_READY-FOR-Publication-09242012_AC.pdf 'Aurora' Cyber Attackers Were Really Running Counter-Intelligence http://www.cio.com/article/732122/_Aurora_Cyber_Attackers_Were_Really_Running_Counter_Intelligence We thank you again for choosing Symantec as your Managed Security Services Provider. Should you have any questions or feedback, please contact your Services Manager, or the Analysis Team can be reached by requesting help via phone, e-mail, or visiting the MSS portal at https://mss.symantec.com. Global Client Services Team Symantec Managed Security Services https://mss.symantec.com File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Managed Security Services, Thought Leadership, Cyber Security Services, Symantec Enterprise Security Groups: Subscriptions (0)
+6 6 0 6 Votes Symantec Official Blog Hidden Lynx – Professional Hackers for Hire By: Symantec Security Response Symantec Employee Created 17 Sep 2013 0 Comments : 日本語, Español Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email For the past few years, reports have continued to emerge detailing the activities of actors behind various targeted attacks or Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs). Here at Symantec Security Response, we’ve been keeping our eyes on a group that we believe are among the best of breed. We’ve given them the name of Hidden Lynx—after a string that was found in the command and control server communications. This group has a hunger and drive that surpass other well-known groups such as APT1/Comment Crew. Key characteristics of this group are: technical prowess agility organized sheer resourcefulness patience These attributes are shown by the relentless campaigns waged against multiple concurrent targets over a sustained period of time. They are the pioneers of the “watering hole” technique used to ambush targets, they have early access to zero-day vulnerabilities, and they have the tenacity and patience of an intelligent hunter to compromise the supply chain to get at the true target. These supply chain attacks are carried out by infecting computers at a supplier of an intended target and then waiting for the infected computers to be installed and call home, clearly these are cool calculated actions rather than impulsive forays of amateurs. This group doesn’t just limit itself to a handful of targets; instead it targets hundreds of different organizations in many different regions, even concurrently. Given the breadth and number of targets and regions involved, we infer that this group is most likely a professional hacker-for-hire operation that are contracted by clients to provide information. They steal on demand, whatever their clients are interested in, hence the wide variety and range of targets. We also believe that to carry out attacks of this scale, the group must have considerable hacking expertise at its disposal, perhaps 50 to 100 operatives are employed and organized into at least two distinct teams both tasked with carrying out different activities using different tools and techniques. These types of attacks require time and effort to carry out, some of the campaigns require research and intelligence gathering before any successful attacks can be mounted. At the front line of this group is a team that uses disposable tools along with basic but effective techniques to attack many different targets. They may also act as intelligence collectors too. This team we call Team Moudoor after the name of the Trojan that they use. Moudoor is a back door Trojan that the team uses liberally without worry about discovery by security firms. The other team acts like a special operations unit, elite personnel used to crack the most valuable or toughest targets. The elite team uses a Trojan named Naid and are therefore referred to as Team Naid. Unlike Moudoor, the Naid Trojan is used sparingly and with care to avoid detection and capture, like a secret weapon that is only used when failure is not an option. Since 2011, we have observed at least six significant campaigns by this group. The most notable of these campaigns is the VOHO attack campaign of June, 2012. What was particularly interesting about this attack was the use of the watering hole attack technique and the compromise of Bit9’s trusted file signing infrastructure. The VOHO campaign was ultimately targeting US defense contractors whose systems were protected by Bit9’s trust-based protection software but when the Hidden Lynx attackers’ progress was blocked by this obstacle, they reconsidered their options and found that the best way around the protection was to compromise the heart of the protection system itself and subvert it for their own purpose. This is exactly what they did when they diverted their attention to Bit9 and breached their systems. Once breached, the attackers quickly found their way into the file signing infrastructure that was the foundation of the Bit9 protection model, they then used this system to sign a number of malware files and then these files were used in turn to compromise the true intended targets. For those interested in more in-depth information, we have published a whitepaper that describes the group and the attack campaigns carried out by them. We have also put together an infographic that summarizes the key information about this prolific Hidden Lynx group. File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Endpoint Protection, Security Response, APT targeted attacks, APT1, Backdoor.Moudoor, Trojan.Naid, Watering hole attack, Zero-Days Groups: Subscriptions (0)
+1 1 0 1 Votes Symantec Official Blog Malicious Mandiant Report in Circulation By: Joji Hamada Symantec Employee Created 21 Feb 2013 0 Comments : 日本語 Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email The report, APT1: Exposing One of China's Cyber Espionage Units, published by Mandiant earlier this week has drawn worldwide attention by both the security world and the general public. This interest is due to the conclusion the report has drawn regarding the origin of targeted attacks, using advanced persistent threats (APT), performed by a certain group of attackers dubbed the Comment Crew. You can read Symantec’s response to the report here. Today, Symantec has discovered someone performing targeted attacks is using the report as bait in an attempt to infect those who might be interested in reading it. The email we have come across is in Japanese, but this does not mean there are no emails in other languages spreading in the wild. The email purports to be from someone in the media recommending the report. As you can see in Figure 1, the attachment is made to appear like the actual report with the use of a PDF file and the name of the company as the file name. However, like in many targeted attacks, the email is sent from a free email account and the content of the email uses subpar language. It is obvious to a typical Japanese person reading the email that it was not written by a native speaker. When the fake report, which Symantec detects as Trojan.Pidief, is opened, a blank PDF is shown but in the background exploit code for Adobe Acrobat and Reader Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2013-0641) is executed. The PDF file may drop Trojan.Swaylib and Trojan.Dropper, which drops Downloader, if the vulnerbility is successfully exploited. Could the Comment Crew be playing a prank in response to the publication? The truth is we don’t know. Figure 1. Malicious email purporting to contain the report Similar tactics have been used in the past, one of which actually involved Symantec. Back in 2011, when we released a whitepaper on another group performing targeted attacks, the attackers took the opportunity to use the publication to infect those interested in reading the paper. They did this by spamming targets with the actual whitepaper along with malware hidden in an archive attachment. If you want to read the actual Mandiant report, or any other for that matter, we advise you to download it directly from the company’s website. The Mandiant download page also provides the hash of the file so that viewers can confirm its authenticity. It is also a good idea to check the hash if you are unsure where you acquired the file from. Update - February, 2013 Initially, this blog stated that the PDF file didn't drop any additional malware. However, after further analysis, it has been found to drop malware in some environments. The blog has been updated to reflect this finding. We have also confirmed that there are multiple variants of the malicious fake report. File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Endpoint Protection, Security Response, Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Reader, APT targeted attacks, APT1, Spam, Trojan.Pidief Groups: Subscriptions (0)
+0 0 0 2 Votes Symantec Official Blog APT1: Additional Comment Crew Indicators of Compromise By: Symantec Security Response Symantec Employee Created 22 Feb 2013 0 Comments : 日本語 Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email Mandiant recently released a document containing indicators of compromise (IOCs) related to multiple espionage campaigns by a group known as the Comment Crew. Symantec has been actively tracking this group for six years while maintaining our own database of indicators. From our investigations we have collected thousands of indicators related to Comment Crew. To help increase public awareness, we have decided to release hundreds of additional Comment Crew indicators to those already released. These are indicators that have been seen within the past year. Symantec products already protect against the artifacts related to these indicators and many of these artifacts have already been shared with the security community. You can find these indicators in the following paper: Comment Crew Indicators of Compromise and on Pastebin. Update [February 25, 2013] – Paper now also includes list of associated MD5 hashes. File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Endpoint Protection, Security Response, APT1, Comment Crew, IOCs Groups: Subscriptions (0)
+2 2 0 2 Votes Symantec Official Blog APT1: Q&A on Attacks by the Comment Crew By: Symantec Security Response Symantec Employee Created 19 Feb 2013 0 Comments : 日本語 Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email Today Mandiant released a detailed report dubbed "APT1" which focuses on a prolific cyber espionage campaign by the Comment Crew going back to at least 2006 and targeting a broad range of industries. The report cites the earliest known public reference about APT1 infrastructure as originating from Symantec. We have detected this threat as Backdoor.Wualess since 2006 and have been actively tracking the group behind these attacks. The following Q&A briefly outlines some of the relevant Symantec information around this group: Q: Do Symantec and Norton products protect against threats used by this group? Yes. Symantec confirms protection for attacks associated with the Comment Crew through our antivirus and IPS signatures, as well as STAR malware protection technologies such as our reputation and behavior-based technologies. Symantec.cloud and Symantec Mail Security for Microsoft Exchange also detect the targeted emails used by this group. Q: Has Symantec been aware of the activities of the Comment Crew? Yes. Symantec has been actively tracking the work of the Comment Crew for a period of time to ensure that the best possible protection is in place for the different threats used by this group. Q: Why are they called the Comment Crew? They were dubbed the Comment Crew due to their use of HTML comments to hide communication to the command-and-control servers. Q: How does a victim get infected? The initial compromise occurs through a spear phishing email sent to the target. The email contains an attachment using a theme relevant to the target. Some recent examples used by this group and blocked by Symantec technologies are listed here: U.S. Stocks Reverse Loss as Consumer Staples, Energy Gain.zip Instruction_of_KC-135_share_space.doc New contact sheet of the AN-UYQ-100 contractors.pdf U.S. Department of Commerce Preliminarily Determines Chinese and Vietnamese Illegally Dumped Wind Towers in the United States.doc ArmyPlansConferenceOnNewGCVSolicitation.pdf Chinese Oil Executive Learning From Experience.doc My Eight-year In Bank Of America.pdf Similar to what Symantec indicated in a recent blog, if the malicious attachment is opened, it attempts to use an exploit against the target victim's system. It drops the malicious payload as well as a clean document to keep the ruse going. Q: Does Symantec know who this group is targeting? Yes. Symantec telemetry has identified many different industries being targeted by this group including Finance, Information Technology, Aerospace, Energy, Telecommunications, Manufacturing, Transportation, Media, and Public Services. The following Figure shows a worldwide heatmap for detections related to this group since the beginning of 2012. Figure. Heatmap of Comment Crew related detections Q: Currently, what are the most prevalent threats being used by this group? Symantec, in the last year, has identified the most prevalent threats being used by this group as Trojan.Ecltys, Backdoor.Barkiofork, and Trojan.Downbot. Q: Has Symantec released any publications around these attacks? Yes. We have recently released publications to address techniques and targets of Trojan.Ecltys and Backdoor.Barkiofork, both of which are threats used by this group: Targeted Attacks Make WinHelp Files Not So Helpful Backdoor.Barkiofork Targets Aerospace and Defense Industry We have also investigated associated attacks of this group: The Truth Behind the Shady RAT Q: What are the Symantec detection family names for threats used by this group? Trojan.Ecltys Backdoor.Barkiofork Backdoor.Wakeminap Trojan.Downbot Backdoor.Dalbot Backdoor.Revird Trojan.Badname Backdoor.Wualess Symantec also detects numerous other files used by this group under various detection names: Trojan Horse Downloader Trojan.ADH Trojan.ADH.2 Trojan.Gen Trojan.Gen.2 Hacktool.Mimikatz Spyware.ADH Q: Does Symantec have IPS protection for these threat families? Yes. There are several IPS signatures to catch threat families associated with this group: System Infected: Trojan.Ecltys Activity 2 System Infected: Barkiofork Malware Activity System Infected: Shady Trojan Activity System Infected: Dalbot Backdoor Activity Q: How will this report affect the Comment Crew operations? Despite the exposure of the Comment Crew, Symantec believes they will continue their activities. We will continue to monitor activities and provide protection against these attacks. We advise customers to use the latest Symantec technologies and incorporate layered defenses to best protect against attacks by groups like the Comment Crew. File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Endpoint Protection, Security Response, APT1, Backdoor.Barkiofork, Backdoor.Dalbot, Backdoor.Revird, Backdoor.Wakeminap, Backdoor.Wualess, Downloader, Hacktool.Mimikatz, Spyware.ADH, Trojan Horse, Trojan.ADH, Trojan.ADH.2, Trojan.Badname, Trojan.Downbot, Trojan.Ecltys, Trojan.Gen, Trojan.Gen.2 Groups: Subscriptions (0)
For the roughly three decades that the commercial cybersecurity industry has existed, it has struggled with a fundamental problem – a lack of realistic attack testing to determine whether the products that companies and consumers buy actually work in stopping real “in-the-wild” threats. The problem is a challenging one: If you want to test a security technology against a specific threat, by definition, that threat must already be known to someone and, thus, cannot qualify as a “zero-day” attack. It is the cybersecurity equivalent of Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle: The more precisely you can determine the efficacy of a security product against tested malware and exploits, the less realistic that result is, since to be tested, those threats have to be already known and widely available. This was the reason I was so excited last summer when CrowdStrike® was approached by MITRE (a federally funded research and development center) with a request to evaluate our Falcon endpoint protection solution in the first realistic public adversary emulation. Unlike other public tests, this evaluation was not going to rely on known malware and exploits, but instead mimic the tradecraft of a real and sophisticated nation-state adversary on a cyber range setup at MITRE. CrowdStrike did not pay MITRE to conduct this evaluation. MITRE’s independence and nonprofit status is yet another important differentiation and enhances the credibility of their testing process. The goal of the simulation was to not just detect an adversary, but to comprehensively determine what level of visibility the product provides against all of the tradecraft utilized, and to map those results to MITRE’s ATT&CK™ framework. The adversary picked in our evaluation was GOTHIC PANDA (also known as APT3), a sophisticated hacking team linked to the Chinese government’s Ministry of State Security (MSS) and whose contractors were recently indicted by U.S. Justice Department. The group is known for leveraging zero-day exploits, use of common websites such as GitHub for command and control channels to evade blacklisting, and for targeting numerous industries, including Aerospace and defense, chemicals, energy, finance, healthcare, industrial goods, NGO/international organizations, technology and transportation. Today I’m thrilled to announce that CrowdStrike Falcon, backed by our elite Falcon OverWatch™ team, aced the simulation – detecting and providing visibility into nearly every technique tested by the MITRE team. This should be no surprise to our customers, who observe our unmatched ability to stop breaches in their environments daily. Our OverWatch team detects, stops and notifies our customers of about 400 serious breach attempts every single week – two per hour, on average. The ATT&CK framework matrix results for CrowdStrike are below. The green and yellow cells indicate all of the techniques that Falcon had detection or visibility for. The white and grey cells are those techniques that were not part of the testing, as they were either not part of GOTHIC PANDA’s suite of tactics or were out-of-scope for this simulation. The one red cell below – “Exfiltration Over Command and Control Channel” (in this case, DNS) – was the only one missed by Falcon. This one small visibility gap has since been corrected and added to our platform. CrowdStrike Falcon’s ATT&CK evaluation of GOTHIC PANDA tactics and techniques We are very pleased that in the months following our testing, we have worked closely with MITRE to receive approval to publish our results for public viewing. The report is available for download here: Download the Report. We believe that this emulation test is an important step forward for our industry, providing the first comprehensive and easily discernible evaluation of the real-world efficacy of security products. We encourage all vendors to participate in this type of testing going forward, and applaud MITRE’s Leveraging External Transformational Solutions (LETS) program for this important and groundbreaking achievement. We are also very grateful to the MITRE team for the valuable feedback they have provided to us in the course of this simulation, and for the opportunity to improve our technology to benefit all of our customers. We believe in open and transparent testing by credible and independent organizations like MITRE. We also encourage all customers and analysts to demand this type of independent testing to enable our industry to improve and develop more effective solutions. The results of this emulation come on the heels of CrowdStrike being positioned highest for “ability to execute” and furthest for “completeness of vision” in the Visionary Quadrant of the 2018 Gartner Magic Quadrant for endpoint protection platforms, further validating our leadership position in the endpoint protection space. I would encourage you to think beyond vendors that wave their hands and try to misdirect customers that independent testing and independent analyst reports are not relevant when they don’t suit their narrative. They are critical to separating the marketing talk from the solutions that can protect customers from real-world threats.
Adobe has already released a patch for CVE-2015-3113 with an out-of-band security bulletin ( https://helpx.adobe.com/security/products/flash-player/apsb15-14.html ). FireEye recommends that Adobe Flash Player users update to the latest version as soon as possible. FireEye MVX detects this threat as a web infection, the IPS engine reports the attack as CVE-2015-3113, and the SHOTPUT backdoor is reported as Backdoor.APT.CookieCutter. APT3 The China-based threat group FireEye tracks as APT3, aka UPS, is responsible for this exploit and the activity identified in our previous blog post, Operation Clandestine Fox . This group is one of the more sophisticated threat groups that FireEye Threat Intelligence tracks, and they have a history of introducing new browser-based zero-day exploits (e.g., Internet Explorer, Firefox, and Adobe Flash Player). After successfully exploiting a target host, this group will quickly dump credentials, move laterally to additional hosts, and install custom backdoors. APT3’s command and control (CnC) infrastructure is difficult to track, as there is little overlap across campaigns. Activity Overview In the last several weeks, APT3 actors launched a large-scale phishing campaign against organizations in the following industries: Aerospace and Defense Construction and Engineering High Tech Telecommunications Transportation Upon clicking the URLs provided in the phishing emails, targets were redirected to a compromised server hosting JavaScript profiling scripts. Once a target host was profiled, victims downloaded a malicious Adobe Flash Player SWF file and an FLV file, detailed below. This ultimately resulted in a custom backdoor known as SHOTPUT, detected by FireEye as Backdoor.APT.CookieCutter , being delivered to the victim’s system. The payload is obscured using xor encoding and appended to a valid GIF file. Attack Vector The phishing emails used by APT3 during this campaign were extremely generic in nature, almost appearing to be spam. An example email body: Save between $200-450 by purchasing an Apple Certified Refurbished iMac through this link. Refurbished iMacs come with the same 1-year extendable warranty as new iMacs. Supplies are limited, but update frequently. Don't hesitate . . .>Go to Sale The string “>Go to Sale” was a link that used the following URL structure: hxxp://<subdomain>.<legitdomain>.<TLD>/<directory>/<alphanumericID>.html Exploit Details The attack exploits an unpatched vulnerability in the way Adobe Flash Player parses Flash Video (FLV) files. The exploit uses common vector corruption techniques to bypass Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), and uses Return-Oriented Programming (ROP) to bypass Data Execution Prevention (DEP). A neat trick to their ROP technique makes it simpler to exploit and will evade some ROP detection techniques. Shellcode is stored in the packed Adobe Flash Player exploit file alongside a key used for its decryption. The payload is xor encoded and hidden inside an image. Exploit Packaging The Adobe Flash Player exploit is packed with a simple RC4 packer. The RC4 key and ciphertext are BinaryData blobs that the packer uses to decrypt the layer 2 Adobe Flash Player file. Once decrypted, layer 2 is executed with loader.loadBytes. Vector Corruption Layer 2 uses a classic Adobe Flash Player Vector corruption technique to develop its heap corruption vulnerability to a full relative read/write available to ActionScript3. In this technique, the attacker sprays Adobe Flash Player Vectors to the heap, and triggers a write vulnerability to change the size of one of the vectors. The attacker can then perform subsequent reads and writes to memory outside the intended boundaries of the corrupted Vector object from AS3. For more details on this technique, see Flash in 2015 . Once the attacker has limited read/write access to memory, they choose to corrupt a second Vector to increase their access to a range of 0x3fffffff bytes. This second Vector is used for the remainder of the exploit. Return-Oriented Programming The attackers use a ROP chain to call kernel32!VirtualAlloc to mark their shellcode as executable before jumping to their shellcode. Instead of writing their ROP chain to the heap along with their shellcode and payload, they used a different technique. Usually, exploit developers will corrupt a built-in Adobe Flash Player object such as a Sound object. Instead, the attackers chose to define their own class in AS3 with a function that takes a lot of arguments: class CustomClass { public function victimFunction(arg1:uint, arg2:uint, …, arg80:uint):uint } Then, the attackers can simply overwrite the function pointer with a gadget that adds to the stack pointer and returns to pivot to ROP. They have no need to identify the absolute address of the ROP chain and preserve it in a register for a typical xchg reg32, esp pivot. Additionally, storing the ROP chain on the stack will evade ROP detection mechanisms designed around detecting when the stack pointer points outside of a thread’s stack region. this.customObj.victimFunction( 6f73b68b, // ret; (ROPsled) …, 6f73b68a, //pop eax 1f140100, 6fd36da1, //call Kernel32!VirtualAlloc(0x1f140000, 0x10000, 0x1000, 0x40) 1f140000, // Address 00010000, // Size 00001000, // Type 00000040, // Protection = RWX 6f73b68b*9 // ret (ROPsled) 6fd36da7*2 // ret 6f73aff0 pop ecx 6fd36da7 6fd36da7 jmp [eax] … ) this.customObj.victimFunction pointer modified to: 00000000`6de533dc 5e pop rsi 00000000`6de533dd 83c448 add esp,48h 00000000`6de533e0 c3 ret Lastly, the ROP chain has a ROPsled following the call to VirtualAlloc. This could just be an artifact of development, or it could be designed to bypass detection mechanisms that test for valid return addresses up to a limited depth at calls to VirtualAlloc. Full Exploit Flow 1. Create a new Video object 2. Fetch the payload 3. Attach the video to a new NetStream 4. Spray the heap with Adobe Flash Player Vectors a. Create a Vector containing 98688 Vectors containing 1022 uints b. Set the first two dwords in each Vector<uint> to 0x41414141, 0x42424242 5. Create holes for the controlled FLV object a. Free approximately every 3 rd Vector in the spray 6. Spray custom class objects for future control transfer a. Define a new class CustomClass i. Define a function victimFunction with lots of arguments b. Create a Vector of 0x100 Vectors of 1007 references to an CustomClass instance 7. Fetch and play the FLV exploit a. The FLV file will allocate an attacker controlled object in one of the holes from step 5 b. The attacker controlled object will overwrite the length field of an adjacent vector 8. Re-fill holes from step 5 with Vectors as in step 4 9. Find the corrupted vector a. Search through Vectors from step 4 b. Check the length of each Vector to find one that is abnormally large 10. Corrupt a second Vector (Vector2) a. Using the corrupted Vector from step 9 to read/write relative memory addresses i. Search memory for an adjacent vector ii. Overwrite the length field with 0x3fffffff iii. Verify that a corrupted vector with length 0x3fffffff now exists in the spray 1. If not, undo corruption and attempt to corrupt the next vector 11. Decrypt shellcode and store it and the payload on the heap 12. Overwrite the CustomClass.victimFunction function pointer a. Find the sprayed CustomClass object instance references from step 6 b. The new function is a form of “pivot” that transfers control to the attacker 13. Build ROP chain on the stack and call it a. Find ROP gadgets in memory using Vector2 i. Including a call to kernel32!VirtualAlloc b. Call the corrupted CustomClass.victimFunction from step 6.a.i i. Arguments to the function are the gadgets of the ROP chain ii. They are conveniently pushed onto the stack iii. Corrupted vtable from step 12 calls a pivot 1. The “pivot” just adds to to the stack pointer and returns because the ROP chain is on the stack 14. ROP chain calls shellcode a. Call kernel32!VirtualAlloc b. jmp to shellcode 15. Shellcode calls payload a. Shellcode searches memory for the payload, which is stored inside an image b. Shellcode decodes the payload by xoring each byte (that is not 0 or 0x17) with 0x17 Conclusion Once APT3 has access to a target network, they work quickly and they are extremely proficient at enumerating and moving laterally to maintain their access. Additionally, this group uses zero-day exploits, continually updated custom backdoors, and throwaway CnC infrastructure, making it difficult to track them across campaigns. Acknowledgements Thank you to the following contributors to this blog! · Joseph Obed, Ben Withnell, Kevin Zuk, Genwei Jiang, and Corbin Souffrant of FireEye
The MsnMM Campaigns [pdf] For over half a decade, the Naikon APT waged multiple attack campaigns on sensitive targets throughout South-eastern Asia and around the South China Sea. It maintained a heavy offensive focus on Myanmar, Vietnam, Singapore, the Philippines, Malaysia, and Laos. Targets and victims included ASEAN governmental agencies and government departments, investment enterprises, military, law enforcement and border control organizations, embassies, university faculties and others. Parts of the campaigns have been publicly discussed according to the nature of their tools. For example, the MsnMM backdoors started out with internal names like “WinMM” and “SslMM”, and their file naming spoofed MSN Talk and Msn Gaming Zone. The backdoor term “naikon” was derived from the User-Agent string “NOKIAN95”. But msnMM, naikon, sakto, and rarstone backdoors are all used by the same actor that we call the Naikon APT. Their second stage tools largely remained unknown, but a list is included in this report. The Naikon attackers attempted to exfiltrate sensitive geo-political, military, and economic data; to intercept communications and to maintain surveillance on their victims throughout the MsnMM campaigns. Their toolset and techniques changed over time in many minor ways, and appear to be run by Chinese-speaking individuals. The group’s infrastructure, reliant on web apps located mostly via dynamic dns domains, overlapped across these campaigns. As previously described, the APT’s methods and technologies are simple, but highly effective against its targets’ defenses. We do not find 0-days here. Much of Naikon’s spear-phish and decoy document content, as well as its deployment, coincided approximately with highly-charged geopolitical events. The consistent list of military, economic, and political targets gave away the actor’s interests. Naikon’s earliest campaigns deployed the exe_exchange, winMM, and sys10 backdoors, and the codebase was later built out into more custom tools. The MsnMM campaigns were waged into the start of 2014, and then dropped off before picking up again later in the year and into 2015. Regarding interaction with other APTs, it’s interesting to note that Naikon APT victims overlap with Cycldek APT victims. Cycldek is another persistent, but weaker APT. In addition, not only does the APT30 target profile match the Naikon APT, its toolset also features minor but noticeable similarities. And the later Naikon campaigns led to an all out APT v APT confrontation with the Hellsing APT , when “the empire struck back.” Although aspects of the malware set have been discussed on some blogs and in other papers, there hasn’t been an accurate report bringing together details of the MsnMM, Sys10, and Naikon campaigns as the work of one crew, the Naikon APT. Finally, while this report looks into their past activity, the Naikon APT remains active, deploying a more recent codebase. The top targets for 2015 that we are aware of include organizations in Myanmar, Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, and Laos.
Our recent report, “ The Chronicles of the Hellsing APT: the Empire Strikes Back ” began with an introduction to the Naikon APT, describing it as “One of the most active APTs in Asia, especially around the South China Sea”. Naikon was mentioned because of its role in what turned out to be a unique and surprising story about payback. It was a Naikon attack on a Hellsing-related organization that first introduced us to the Hellsing APT. Considering the volume of Naikon activity observed and its relentless, repeated attack attempts, such a confrontation was worth looking into, so we did. The #NaikonAPT group was spear-phished by an actor we now call “Hellsing” Tweet The Naikon APT aligns with the actor our colleagues at FireEye recently revealed to be APT30 , but we haven’t discovered any exact matches. It is hardly surprising that there is an element of overlap, considering both actors have for years mined victims in the South China Sea area, apparently in search of geo-political intelligence. The #NaikonAPT group has for 5 years mined victims, apparently in search of geo-political intelligence Tweet This Naikon report will be complemented by a follow-on report that will examine the Naikon TTP and the incredible volume of attack activity around the South China Sea that has been going on since at least 2010. Noteworthy operational and logistical characteristics of this APT include: At least five years of high volume, high profile, geo-political attack activity Geographical focus – per-country, individual operator assignment and proxy presence Dynamic, well organized infrastructure Reliance on an externally developed, consistent set of tools comprising a full-featured backdoor, a builder, and an exploit builder High success rate in infiltrating national organisations in ASEAN countries Highly Focused and Effective Around the South China Sea In the spring of 2014, we noticed an increase in the volume of attack activity by the Naikon APT. The attackers appeared to be Chinese-speaking and targeted mainly top-level government agencies and civil and military organizations in countries such as the Philippines, Malaysia, Cambodia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Myanmar, Singapore, Nepal, Thailand, Laos and China. Decoy An attack typically starts with an email carrying an attachment that contains information of interest to the potential victim. The document may be based on information from open sources or on proprietary information stolen from other compromised systems. This bait “document”, or email attachment, appears to be a standard Word document, but is in fact an CVE-2012-0158 exploit, an executable with a double extension, or an executable with an RTLO filename, so it can execute code without the user’s knowledge or consent. When the executable is launched, spyware is installed on the victim computer at the same time as a decoy document is displayed to the user; fooling them into thinking they have simply opened a document. Configuration The Naikon tool of choice generates a special, small, encrypted file which is 8,000 bytes in size, containing code to be injected into the browser along with configuration data. With the help of a start-up module, this whole file is injected into the browser memory and decrypts the configuration block containing the following: C&C server Ports and path to the server User-agent string Filenames and paths to its components Hash sums of the user API functions The same code then downloads its main body from the C&C server using the SSL protocol, loads it independently from the operating system functions and, without saving it to the hard drive, hands over control to the XS02 function. All functionality is handled in memory. Payload The main module is a remote administration utility. Using SSL, the module establishes a reverse connection to the C&C server as follows: it sets up an outgoing connection to the C&C server and checks if there is a command that it should execute. If there is, it executes the command and returns the result to the C&C. There are 48 commands in the module’s repertoire, which a remote operator can use to effectively control the victim computer. This includes taking a complete inventory, downloading and uploading data, installing add-on modules, or working with the command line. The main module supports 48 commands, which the attackers can use to control the victim machine #NaikonAPT Tweet Here is the complete list of commands: 0 CMD_MAIN_INFO 1 CMD_PROCESS_REFRESH 2 CMD_PROCESS_NAME 3 CMD_PROCESS_KILL 4 CMD_PROCESS_MODULE 5 CMD_DRIVE_REFRESH 6 CMD_DIRECTORY 7 CMD_DIRECTORY_CREATE 8 CMD_DIRECTORY_CREATE_HIDDEN 9 CMD_DIRECTORY_DELETE 10 CMD_DIRECTORY_RENAME 11 CMD_DIRECOTRY_DOWNLOAD 12 CMD_FILE_REFRESH 13 CMD_FILE_DELETE 14 CMD_FILE_RENAME 15 CMD_FILE_EXECUTE_NORMAL 16 CMD_FILE_EXECUTE_HIDDEN 17 CMD_FILE_EXECUTE_NORMAL_CMD 18 CMD_FILE_EXECUTE_HIDDEN_CMD 19 CMD_FILE_UPLOAD 20 CMD_FILE_DOWNLOAD 21 CMD_WINDOWS_INFO 22 CMD_WINDOWS_MESSAGE 23 CMD_SHELL_OPEN 24 CMD_SHELL_CLOSE 25 CMD_SHELL_WRITE 26 CMD_SERVICE_REFRESH 27 CMD_SERVICE_CONTROL 28 CMD_PROGRAM_INFO 29 CMD_UNINSTALL_PROGRAM 30 CMD_REGESTRY_INFO 31 CMD_ADD_AUTO_START 32 CMD_MY_PLUGIN 33 CMD_3RD_PLUGIN 34 CMD_REG_CREATEKEY 35 CMD_REG_DELETEKEY 36 CMD_REG_SETVALUE 37 CMD_REG_DELETEVALUE 38 CMD_SELF_KILL 39 CMD_SELF_RESTART 40 CMD_SELF_CONFIG 41 CMD_SELF_UPDATE 42 CMD_SERVER_INFO 43 CMD_INSTALL_SERVICE 44 CMD_FILE_DOWNLOAD2 45 CMD_RESET 46 CMD_CONNECTION_TABLE 50 CMD_HEART_BEAT Several modifications of the main module exist. There are no fundamental differences between modifications; it’s just that extra features get added to the latest versions, such as compression and encryption of transmitted data, or the piecemeal download of large files. d085ba82824c1e61e93e113a705b8e9a 118272 Aug 23 18:46:57 2012 b4a8dc9eb26e727eafb6c8477963829c 140800 May 20 11:56:38 2013 172fd9cce78de38d8cbcad605e3d6675 118784 Jun 13 12:14:40 2013 d74a7e7a4de0da503472f1f051b68745 190464 Aug 19 05:30:12 2013 93e84075bef7a11832d9c5aa70135dc6 154624 Jan 07 04:39:43 2014 CC-Proxy-Op C&C server operations are characterized by the following: Low maintenance requirements Organized geo-specific task assignments Different approaches to communication The C&C servers must have required only a few operators to manage the entire network. Each operator appears to have focused on their own particular set of targets, because a correlation exists between C&C and the location of targets/victims. There is a geo-specific correlation between the location of #NaikonAPT C&Cs and that of targets/victims Tweet Communication with victim systems changed depending on the target involved. In some cases, a direct connection was established between the victim computer and the C&C. In other cases, the connection was established via dedicated proxy servers installed on dedicated servers rented in third countries. In all likelihood, this additional setup was a reaction to the network administrators in some targets limiting or monitoring outbound network connections from their organizations. Here is a partial list of C&C servers and victim locations, demonstrating the geo-specific correlation: ID Jakarta linda.googlenow.in ID Jakarta admin0805.gnway.net ID Jakarta free.googlenow.in ID frankhere.oicp.net ID Bandung frankhere.oicp.net ID Bandung telcom.dhtu.info ID Jakarta laotel08.vicp.net JP Tokyo greensky27.vicp.net KH googlemm.vicp.net KH Phnom Penh googlemm.vicp.net MM peacesyou.imwork.net MM sayakyaw.xicp.net MM ubaoyouxiang.gicp.net MM Yangon htkg009.gicp.net MM kyawthumyin.xicp.net MM myanmartech.vicp.net MM test-user123.vicp.cc MY us.googlereader.pw MY net.googlereader.pw MY lovethai.vicp.net MY yahoo.goodns.in MY Putrajaya xl.findmy.pw MY Putrajaya xl.kevins.pw PH Caloocan oraydns.googlesec.pw PH Caloocan gov.yahoomail.pw PH pp.googledata.pw PH xl.findmy.pw PH mlfjcjssl.gicp.net PH o.wm.ggpw.pw PH oooppp.findmy.pw PH cipta.kevins.pw PH phi.yahoomail.pw SG Singapore xl.findmy.pw SG Singapore dd.googleoffice.in VN Hanoi moziliafirefox.wicp.net VN Hanoi bkav.imshop.in VN Hanoi baomoi.coyo.eu VN Dong Ket macstore.vicp.cc VN Hanoi downloadwindows.imwork.net VN Hanoi vietkey.xicp.net VN Hanoi baomoi.vicp.cc VN Hanoi downloadwindow.imwork.net VN Binh Duong www.ttxvn.net VN Binh Duong vietlex.gnway.net VN Hanoi www.ttxvn.net VN Hanoi us.googlereader.pw VN Hanoi yahoo.goodns.in VN Hanoi lovethai.vicp.net VN Hanoi vietlex.gnway.net XSControl – the Naikon APT’s “victim management software” In the Naikon scheme, a C&C server can be specialized XSControl software running on the host machine. It can be used to manage an entire network of infected clients. In some cases, a proxy is used to tunnel victim traffic to the XSControl server. A Naikon proxy server is a dedicated server that accepts incoming connections from victim computers and redirects them to the operator’s C&C. An individual Naikon proxy server can be set up in any target country with traffic tunnelling from victim systems to the related C&C servers XSControl is written in .NET with the use of DevExpress: Its main capabilities are: Accept initial connections from clients Provide clients with the main remote administration module Enable them to remotely administer infected computers with the help of a GUI Keep logs of client activity Keep logs of operator activity Upload logs and files to an FTP server The operator’s activity logs contain the following: An XML database of downloaded files, specifying the time of operation, the remote path and the local path A database of file names, the victim computer registry keys for the folders and requested sections A history of executed commands Country X, Operator X Now let’s do an overview of one Naikon campaign, focusing on country “X”. Analysis revealed that the cyber-espionage campaign against country X had been going on for many years. Computers infected with the remote control modules provided attackers with access to employees’ corporate email and internal resources, and access to personal and corporate email content hosted on external services. Below is a partial list of organizations affected by Naikon’s “operator X’s” espionage campaign in country X. Office of the President Military Forces Office of the Cabinet Secretary National Security Council Office of the Solicitor General Intelligence Services Civil Aviation Authority Department of Justice Federal Police Executive/Presidential Administration and Management Staff A few of these organizations were key targets and under continuous, real-time monitoring. It was during operator X’s network monitoring that the attackers placed Naikon proxies within the countries’ borders, to cloak and support real-time outbound connections and data exfiltration from high-profile victim organizations. In order to obtain employees’ credentials, operator X sometimes used keyloggers. If necessary, operator X delivered them via the remote control client. In addition to stealing keystrokes, this attacker also intercepted network traffic. Lateral movements included copying over and remotely setting up winpcap across desktop systems within sensitive office networks, then remotely setting up AT jobs to run these network sniffers. Some APTs like Naikon distribute tools such as these across multiple systems in order to regain control if it is lost accidentally and to maintain persistence. The #NaikonAPT group took advantage of cultural idiosyncrasies in its target countries Tweet Operator X also took advantage of cultural idiosyncrasies in its target countries, for example, the regular and widely accepted use of personal Gmail accounts for work. So it was not difficult for the Naikon APT to register similar-looking email addresses and to spear-phish targets with attachments, links to sites serving malware, and links to google drive. The empire strikes back Every once in a while the Naikon group clashes with other APT groups that are also active in the region. In particular, we noticed that the Naikon group was spear-phished by an actor we now call “Hellsing”. More details about the cloak and dagger games between Naikon and Hellsing can be found in our blogpost: “ The Chronicles of the Hellsing APT: The Empire Strikes Back “. Read more about how you can protect your company against the Naikon threat actor here
APT3 Hackers Linked to Chinese Ministry of State Security Independent researchers and experts from threat intelligence firm Recorded Future are confident that the cyber espionage group tracked as APT3 is directly linked to the Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS). While much of the security community typically tries to avoid making attribution statements, arguing that false flags make this task difficult, there are some individuals and companies that don’t shy away from accusing governments of conducting sophisticated cyberattacks. A mysterious group called “intrusiontruth,” which claims to focus on investigating some of the most important advanced persistent threat (APT) actors, has recently published a series of blog posts on APT3, a group that is also known as UPS Team, Gothic Panda, Buckeye and TG-0110. The cyberspies, believed to be sponsored by China, have been active since at least 2009, targeting many organizations in the United States and elsewhere via spear-phishing, zero-day exploits, and various other tools and techniques. Researchers noticed last year that APT3 had shifted its attention from the U.S. and the U.K. to Hong Kong, where it had mainly targeted political entities using a backdoor dubbed “Pirpi.” Intrusiontruth has conducted an analysis of APT3’s command and control (C&C) infrastructure, particularly domain registration data. Their research led to two individuals, named Wu Yingzhuo and Dong Hao, who apparently registered many of the domains used by the threat actor. Both these individuals are listed as shareholders for a China-based security firm called the Guangzhou Boyu Information Technology Company, or Boyusec. In November 2016, the Washington Free Beacon learned from Pentagon intelligence officials that this company had been working with Chinese telecoms giant Huawei to develop spyware-laden security products that would be loaded onto computers and phones. The unnamed officials said Boyusec was “closely connected” to the Chinese Ministry of State Security. Intrusiontruth concluded that either Boyusec has two shareholders with the same name as members of APT3, or Boyusec is in fact APT3, which is the more likely scenario. Recorded Future has dug deeper to find more evidence connecting APT3 to China’s MSS. In a report published on Wednesday, the company said it had attributed the group directly to the MSS with “a high degree of confidence.” Researchers pointed out that in addition to Huawei, which claimed to use Boyusec for security evaluations of its corporate intranet, Boyusec was also a partner of the Guangdong Information Technology Security Evaluation Center (Guangdong ITSEC), and the organizations have been collaborating on an active defense lab since 2014. Guangdong ITSEC is apparently a subordinate of the China Information Technology Evaluation Center (CNITSEC), which, according to academic research, is run by the Ministry of State Security. Experts believe many of the ministry’s subordinates, particularly ones at provincial and local levels, have legitimate public missions and act as a cover-up for intelligence operations. “Companies in sectors that have been victimized by APT3 now must adjust their strategies to defend against the resources and technology of the Chinese government. In this real-life David vs. Goliath situation, customers need both smart security controls and policy, as well as actionable and strategic threat intelligence,” Recorded Future said in its report. Related: Flash Player Flaw Used by APT3 Group Added to Magnitude Exploit Kit Related: China-Linked Group Uses New Malware in Japan Attacks Related: Serious Breach Linked to Chinese APTs Comes to Light (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Risk Management Tracking & Law Enforcement Management & Strategy
China-Linked APT3 Group Focuses Attacks on Hong Kong A China-linked cyberespionage group has shifted its attention from the United States to Hong Kong, where it has targeted more than a dozen organizations over the past year. FireEye reported last week that APT3, a threat actor believed to be sponsored by China, had targeted two Hong Kong government agencies in early August. The attackers had used spear-phishing emails to trick recipients into installing what the security firm said was a previously unseen piece of malware. APT3, also known as UPS Team, Gothic Panda, Buckeye and TG-0110, has been active since at least 2009. The group’s attacks often involved zero-day vulnerabilities and flaws that had just been patched. Many of the group’s earlier attacks focused on the United States, including government organizations. However, Symantec, which tracks the threat actor as Buckeye, noticed last year that the hackers had become increasingly interested in Hong Kong. Symantec observed roughly 82 APT3 victims since the beginning of 2015, but experts pointed out that the group had cast a wide net and only 17 of these organizations were persistently targeted. The list of victims included 13 organizations in Hong Kong, three in the U.S. and one in the U.K. While there were some periods last year when all three countries had been targeted, researchers noticed that the U.K. and the U.S. were no longer attacked starting with March 2016. In the recent attacks observed by Symantec, mostly aimed at political entities in Hong Kong, APT3 used ZIP archives and Windows shortcut (.lnk) files to deliver a backdoor dubbed by the security firm Pirpi. The infection method appears to be the same in the attacks observed by FireEye – a ZIP archive contains a shortcut file that downloads malware. However, the early August attacks spotted by FireEye did not leverage Pirpi, which has been around since 2010 and which the company tracks as Backdoor.APT.CookieCutter. Instead, the security firm said they involved a new malware tool. This suggests that China may have stepped up its attacks just before the Hong Kong legislative elections that took place on September 4. The Chinese government has been increasingly concerned about Hong Kong’s push for more political independence. In addition to Pirpi, Symantec observed APT3 using various other tools, including keyloggers, remote command execution tools, system information harvesting tools, and browser password stealers. Researchers said the group appears to be focusing on file and print servers, which suggests they are mainly interested in stealing documents. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
APT3 Group Using Windows OLE Vulnerability: FireEye The attack group known as APT3 is now using exploits for recently-patched Windows vulnerabilities, according to a report from FireEye. APT3 is believed to be behind 'Operation Clandestine Fox', a campaign first disclosed in April when the group began using a zero-day in Internet Explorer in targeted attacks. In May, the attackers began specifically targeting Windows XP machines running Internet Explorer 8. The group has also been seen using social networks to fool targets into installing malware. "APT3…the actors responsible for Operation Clandestine Fox has quietly continued to send waves of spearphishing messages over the past few months," FireEye researchers blogged. "This actor initiated their most recent campaign on November 19, 2014 targeting multiple organizations. The attacker leveraged multiple exploits, targeting both CVE-2014-6332 and CVE-2014-4113. CVE-2014-6332 was disclosed publicly on 2014-11-11 and is a Windows OLE Automation Array Remote Code Execution vulnerability. CVE-2014-4113 is a privilege escalation vulnerability that was disclosed publicly on 2014-10-14." "The use of CVE-2014-6332 is notable, as it demonstrates that multiple classes of actors, both criminal and APT alike, have now incorporated this exploit into their toolkits," the researchers continued. "Further, the use of both of these two known vulnerabilities in tandem is notable for APT3. This actor is historically known for leveraging zero-day vulnerabilities in widespread but infrequent phishing campaigns. The use of known exploits and more frequent attacks may indicate both a shift in strategy and operational tempo for this group." CVE-2014-6332 was fixed earlier this month during Patch Tuesday. The bug garnered significant attention because it had exploitable for nearly two decades. The vulnerability affected all versions of Windows from Windows 95 on, and has been remotely exploitable since Internet Explorer 3.0. CVE-2014-4113 meanwhile exists when the Windows kernel-mode driver improperly handles objects in memory. An attacker who exploited it could potentially run arbitrary code in kernel mode. "Although APT3 is well known for employing zero-day exploits in their attacks, recent activity has demonstrated that they will also attack targets with known exploits or social engineering," the FireEye researchers wrote. "Since Operation Clandestine Fox, we have observed this actor execute multiple attacks that did not rely on zero-day exploits. The combination of this sustained operational tempo and lack of zero-day exploits may indicate that this group has changed strategy and has decided to attack more frequently and does not have steady access to zero-day exploit code." "No matter the strategy, this actor has shown an ability to operate successfully," the researchers added. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Brian Prince is a Contributing Writer for SecurityWeek.Previous Columns by Brian Prince:U.S. Healthcare Companies Hardest Hit by 'Stegoloader' Malware CryptoWall Ransomware Cost Victims More Than $18 Million Since April 2014: FBINew Adobe Flash Player Flaw Shares Similarities With Previous Vulnerability: Trend MicroVisibility Challenges Industrial Control System Security: SurveyAdobe Flash Player Zero-Day Exploited in Attack Campaign Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Malware
Flash Player Flaw Used by APT3 Group Added to Magnitude Exploit Kit An exploit for a Flash Player vulnerability patched by Adobe last week with the release of version 18.0.0.194 has been integrated into the Magnitude exploit kit. The existence of the heap buffer overflow vulnerability (CVE-2015-3113) that can be exploited for arbitrary code execution was brought to light by FireEye. The security firm discovered that the flaw has been leveraged by the China-based attack group known as APT3 (UPS) in a large-scale phishing campaign aimed at organizations in the aerospace and defense, construction and engineering, telecommunications, high-tech, and transportation industries. The security hole, which according to Trend Micro is similar to a previously discovered bug (CVE-2015-3043), exists due to the way Adobe Flash Player parses Flash Video (FLV) files. Four days after Adobe patched the vulnerability, the French security researcher “Kafeine” noticed that an exploit for the bug had been included in the Magnitude exploit kit. The expert reported on Sunday that cybercriminals have been using the exploit to deliver the Cryptowall ransomware. Jérôme Segura, senior security researcher at Malwarebytes, believes the exploit for CVE-2015-3113 will be added to other kits “very soon.” However, Kafeine told SecurityWeek that he had not seen the exploit in any other kits as of June 29, 4:00 AM EST. It’s not uncommon for cybercriminals to start exploiting Flash Player vulnerabilities in their operations shortly after they are patched by Adobe. In late May, an exploit for a Flash Player bug fixed by Adobe on May 11 was added to the Angler exploit kit. A few days later, experts noticed that exploits for the same bug had been added to the Magnitude, Neutrino, and Nuclear Pack kits. Experts told SecurityWeek that in many cases malicious actors develop these exploits by reverse engineering the patches. In the case of zero-day flaws, the exploit kit teams either have skilled members who develop the exploits themselves, or they have the funds to acquire them from the black market, said malware analyst Yonathan Klijnsma. The authors of different exploit kits are usually in direct competition so they don’t share exploits. However, it’s not uncommon for them to reverse engineer the exploits created by other teams. “Once a new exploit has been introduced in one kit, it’s pretty easy for others to copy it,” Timo Hirvonen, senior researcher at F-Secure, told SecurityWeek earlier this month. “Some criminals might be behind several exploit kits, just like Paunch was behind Blackhole and Cool, and they may use the same exploit in all their kits.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
U.S. Indicts Chinese For Hacking Siemens, Moody’s U.S. authorities filed charges Monday against three China-based hackers for stealing sensitive information from U.S. based companies, including data from Siemens industrial groups and accessing a high-profile email account at Moody’s. Wu Yingzhuo, Dong Hao and Xia Lei, who the Department of Justice (DOJ) says are Chinese nationals and residents of China, were indicted by a grand jury for a series of cyber-attacks against three corporate victims in the financial, engineering and technology industries between 2011 and May 2017. Victims named in the indictment include Moody’s Analytics, Siemens, and GPS technology firm Trimble. According to the FBI, the hackers work for Guangzhou Bo Yu Information Technology Company Limited, a firm that purports to be a China-based Internet security firm also known as “Boyusec.” Tracked as APT3 by FireEye, and Gothic Panda by CrowdStrike, the group is also known as UPS Team, Buckeye and TG-0110, and has previously been linked to the Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS). “We’ve tracked their activity back to 2007 and they are one of the most technically advanced state-affiliated actors in China,” Adam Meyers, VP of Intelligence at CrowdStrike, told SecurityWeek. “Their previous targeting includes industries such as Aerospace, Defense, Energy, Technology, NGOs, etc., that are primarily aligned with China’s economic objectives.” In November 2016, the Washington Free Beacon learned from Pentagon intelligence officials that Boyusec had been working with Chinese telecoms giant Huawei to develop spyware-laden security products that would be loaded onto computers and phones. The unnamed officials said Boyusec was “closely connected” to the Chinese Ministry of State Security. According to the indictment, the hackers: • Stole approximately 407 gigabytes of proprietary commercial data pertaining to Siemens’s energy, technology and transportation businesses. • Accessed the internal email server of Moody’s Analytics and placed a forwarding rule in the email account of a prominent employee, and set it to forward all emails to and from the account to web-based email accounts controlled by the attackers. • Stole at least 275 megabytes of data, including compressed data, which included hundreds of files that would have assisted a Trimble competitor in developing, providing and marketing a similar product without incurring millions of dollars in research and development costs. “The primary goal of the co-conspirators’ unauthorized access to victim computers was to search for, identify, copy, package, and steal data from those computers, including confidential business and commercial information, work product, and sensitive victim employee information, such as usernames and passwords that could be used to extend unauthorized access within the victim systems,” the DOJ said. “For the three victim entities listed in the Indictment, such information included hundreds of gigabytes of data regarding the housing finance, energy, technology, transportation, construction, land survey, and agricultural sectors.” Intrusion Truth previously conducted an analysis of APT3’s command and control (C&C) infrastructure, and analyzed domain registration data. Their research led to two individuals, named Wu Yingzhuo and Dong Hao, who apparently registered many of the domains used by the threat actor. Researchers noticed last year that the group had shifted its attention from the U.S. and the U.K. to Hong Kong, where it had mainly targeted political entities using a backdoor dubbed “Pirpi.” CrowdStrike has seen an uptick in activity by the group since 2016, Meyers said. In addition to Pirpi, Symantec observed APT3 using various other tools, including keyloggers, remote command execution tools, system information harvesting tools, and browser password stealers. Researchers said the group appears to be focusing on file and print servers, which suggests they are mainly interested in stealing documents to support their espionage efforts. “Defendants Wu, Dong and Xia launched coordinated and targeted cyber intrusions against businesses operating in the United States, including here in the Western District of Pennsylvania, in order to steal confidential business information,” said Acting U.S. Attorney Song. “These conspirators masked their criminal conspiracy by exploiting unwitting computers, called ‘hop points,’ conducting ‘spearphish’ email campaigns to gain unauthorized access to corporate computers, and deploying malicious code to infiltrate the victim computer networks.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Tracking & Law Enforcement Cybercrime
Adobe Flash Player Zero-Day Exploited in Attack Campaign Adobe Systems released an emergency update today to address a security vulnerability in Adobe Flash Player that is being exploited in a large-scale phishing campaign. The bug, CVE-2015-3113, is a heap buffer overflow issue. It was discovered by researchers at FireEye, who have linked it to attacks by the hacking crew APT3 that have targeted a number of industries, including the telecommunications, transportation and aerospace and defense sectors. "Adobe is aware of reports that CVE-2015-3113 is being actively exploited in the wild via limited, targeted attacks," Adobe stated in its advisory. "Systems running Internet Explorer for Windows 7 and below, as well as Firefox on Windows XP, are known targets." According to FireEye, the attackers' emails contained links to compromised web servers that served either benign content or a malicious Adobe Flash Player file exploiting the bug. "Upon clicking the URLs provided in the phishing emails, targets were redirected to a compromised server hosting JavaScript profiling scripts," FireEye researchers blogged. "Once a target host was profiled, victims downloaded a malicious Adobe Flash Player SWF file and an FLV file, detailed below. This ultimately resulted in a custom backdoor known as SHOTPUT, detected by FireEye as Backdoor.APT.CookieCutter, being delivered to the victim’s system." "The attack exploits an unpatched vulnerability in the way Adobe Flash Player parses Flash Video (FLV) files," the researchers explained. "The exploit uses common vector corruption techniques to bypass Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), and uses Return-Oriented Programming (ROP) to bypass Data Execution Prevention (DEP). A neat trick to their ROP technique makes it simpler to exploit and will evade some ROP detection techniques. Shellcode is stored in the packed Adobe Flash Player exploit file alongside a key used for its decryption. The payload is xor encoded and hidden inside an image." APT3 has been linked to the use of browser-based zero-days in the past, and will typically dump credentials and move laterally across a compromised network to hit additional victims, the FireEye researchers added. "Now that the exploit has been discovered, most security and operations teams are scrambling to do one of two things – race to deploy the newest patch before hackers can leverage the exploit for an attack," said Clinton Karr, senior security strategist at Bromium. "Or test the patch to make sure it integrates with legacy systems. This latest zero-day and others before it could have been isolated in the first place. Only by isolating the threat are security and ops teams granted the grace period needed to test and deploy these critical patches." "The vulnerability lies in the video decoding part of Flash and the exploit shows some signs of sophistication by introducing new techniques in their use of ROP," blogged Qualys CTO Wolfgang Kandek. "Patch as quickly as possible. 0-days once discovered this way tend to spread quickly to other cyber criminal groups. Adobe mentions that all known targets seem to use Windows 7 and Internet Explorer and Firefox on Windows XP, but we don't recommend holding back on patching even if you are running other configurations (hopefully not XP, though). Users of IE10/11 and Google Chrome will get their patches through their browsers directly, everybody else will need to download directly from Adobe." (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Brian Prince is a Contributing Writer for SecurityWeek.Previous Columns by Brian Prince:U.S. Healthcare Companies Hardest Hit by 'Stegoloader' Malware CryptoWall Ransomware Cost Victims More Than $18 Million Since April 2014: FBINew Adobe Flash Player Flaw Shares Similarities With Previous Vulnerability: Trend MicroVisibility Challenges Industrial Control System Security: SurveyAdobe Flash Player Zero-Day Exploited in Attack Campaign Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
State-Sponsored Attackers Use Web Analytics for Reconnaissance A threat group believed to be sponsored by a nation state has compromised over 100 websites in an effort to track and profile potential targets, FireEye reported on Monday. The reconnaissance campaign, which FireEye has been tracking since last year, is similar and possibly related to the activities of the Russia-linked advanced persistent threat (APT) group identified as Waterbug (Symantec) and Turla (Kaspersky Lab). The actor is mainly known for its operations involving malware toolkits such as Turla (Snake/Uroburos) and Epic Turla (Wipbot/Tavdig). Web analytics allows advertisers and other organizations to measure web traffic and determine the most efficient ways of reaching the targeted audience. However, the same tools and techniques can also be leveraged by malicious actors. According to FireEye, attackers have used web analytics and open source tools to collect data about potential victims and their devices, information they can use to track and profile targets and possibly infect them with malware. The group monitored by the security firm has hijacked more than 100 carefully selected websites in what is referred to as a strategic web compromise. On these websites, the malicious hackers injected a small piece of code that silently redirects visitors to a second compromised website that hosts a profiling script. The script, dubbed by FireEye “WITCHCOVEN,” collects the victim’s computer and browser configuration and deploys a persistent tracking cookie, also known as a “supercookie,” on their device. “We believe the actors analyze the collected data to identify unique users and pair them with information about their computer to later deploy exploits tailored to their particular software and computer configuration,” FireEye said in its report. For example, if the attackers determine that the targeted user is running outdated software that is known to contain serious vulnerabilities, they can easily hack their machine using available exploits, without the need to expose zero-days. Zero-day exploits are likely used only against a limited number of victims whose computers are fully patched, FireEye explained. FireEye says this tactic has been used in targeted operations by other APT groups, including the Chinese actor APT3 in Operation Clandestine Wolf, and the Russian group APT28 in Operation Russian Doll. The data collected by the threat group observed by FireEye can also be useful for creating well-crafted spear phishing emails, for building a user profile that can be leveraged for traditional espionage, and creating a database of potential targets, the security firm said. FireEye has determined that the more than 100 compromised websites are likely to be visited by people interested in international travel, diplomacy, international economics, energy production and policy, and government matters. The list of targets includes government, embassy, higher education and research, entertainment and culture, NGO, international law, media, consumer goods and retail, energy, construction and engineering, visa services, and high tech websites in tens of countries across the world. Of particular interest appear to be executives, military personnel, government officials, and diplomats from Europe and the United States. FireEye customers in sectors such as education, government, financial services, energy and utilities, legal, healthcare, entertainment, media, hospitality, manufacturing, services and consulting, and high tech have reported seeing WITCHCOVEN infections. The security firm believes the reconnaissance campaign is sponsored by a nation state based on the profile of the targeted entities, the scale of the activity and the scope of the operation, and the lack of obvious exploit or malware delivery, which indicates that the attackers want to limit exposure of their tools most likely because they are running a long-term operation with specific intelligence requirements. Related Reading: Researchers Hack Infrastructure of Iran-Linked Cyber Spies (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
New Adobe Flash Player Flaw Shares Similarities With Previous Vulnerability: Trend Micro Researchers at Trend Micro say the zero-day vulnerability patched Tuesday by Adobe Systems has a similar underlying cause as an older flaw. On Tuesday, Adobe patched CVE-2015-3113 - a vulnerability in Adobe Flash Player being exploited in the wild by the attack group APT3. "Our analysis of the current flaw reveals that the root cause of CVE-2015-3113 is similar to CVE-2015-3043," blogged Trend Micro Threats Analyst Peter Pi. "Both cause a buffer overflow within the Flash Player code. In fact, code targeting the previous exploit can also cause crashes in version 18.0.0.160 (the version immediately before this emergency update)." Both vulnerabilities can be used to run arbitrary code on targeted systems if they visit a site with a malicious Flash file. Both are also heap overflow vulnerabilities in the FLV audio parsing flow, reside in how Flash Player processes audio with the Nellymoser codec and can be triggered by modifying the FLV file’s audio tag, explained Pi. "They both overflow a hardcoded length heap buffer with a length of 0x2000," he wrote. "CVE-2015-3043 and CVE-2015-3113 both trigger this bug using sample_count * sample_size > 0x2000, and bypass the length check." Adobe patched CVE-2015-3043 in 17.0.0.169 by limiting the sample count acquired from the FLV audio tag. In version 18.0.0.160, the code underwent significant changes, Pi noted. "The GetSampleCount function checks the final buffer size needed," he explained. "If the final buffer size is larger than 0x2000, it will limit it to 0x2000. However, this ignores the Nellymoser decode function’s hardcoded double operation; this can be used to trigger a heap buffer overflow once again." According to Pi, both vulnerabilities "share the same underlying root cause." "This incident highlights how important careful development of patches is, to prevent patched bugs from being re-exploited at a later time," Pi wrote. "Regression testing must also be a part of software development in order to check that old bugs do not threaten new versions of software." In a statement to SecurityWeek, Adobe said it performs regression testing as part of its standard testing process. "As the Trend Micro article notes, CVE-2015-3113 and CVE-2015-3043 are similar, but different," according to the company. "We will be performing a 0-day review on this issue to determine whether the regression test did not consistently reproduce the issue or whether there is another reason the similarity was not immediately noted and addressed." (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Brian Prince is a Contributing Writer for SecurityWeek.Previous Columns by Brian Prince:U.S. Healthcare Companies Hardest Hit by 'Stegoloader' Malware CryptoWall Ransomware Cost Victims More Than $18 Million Since April 2014: FBINew Adobe Flash Player Flaw Shares Similarities With Previous Vulnerability: Trend MicroVisibility Challenges Industrial Control System Security: SurveyAdobe Flash Player Zero-Day Exploited in Attack Campaign 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
+4 4 0 4 Votes Symantec Official Blog Buckeye cyberespionage group shifts gaze from US to Hong Kong Several organizations in Hong Kong are being targeted by a cyberespionage group known as Buckeye. By: Symantec Security Response Symantec Employee Created 06 Sep 2016 0 Comments : 简体中文, 繁體中文, 日本語 Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email Buckeye (also known as APT3, Gothic Panda, UPS Team, and TG-0110) is a cyberespionage group that is believed to have been operating for well over half a decade. Traditionally, the group attacked organizations in the US as well as other targets. However, Buckeye’s focus appears to have changed as of June 2015, when the group began compromising political entities in Hong Kong. Since March 2016, the group has appeared to mostly focus on organizations in Hong Kong, sending malicious emails to targets as recently as August 4, and attempting to spread within compromised networks in order to steal information. Using the combined threat intelligence of Symantec and Blue Coat Systems, we have built a clear and concise picture of how Buckeye has evolved its tactics in recent years. This has allowed us to further enhance our protection capabilities against the group’s campaigns. Background Symantec has observed Buckeye activity dating back to 2009, involving attacks on various organizations in several regions. Buckeye used a remote access Trojan (Backdoor.Pirpi) in attacks against a US organization’s network in 2009. The group delivered Backdoor.Pirpi through malicious attachments or links in convincing spear-phishing emails. Symantec has identified additional tools used by the group, which will be discussed later. Buckeye has been known to exploit zero-day vulnerabilities in the past, such as CVE-2010-3962 in an campaign in 2010 and CVE-2014-1776 in 2014. Although other zero-day attacks have been reported, they have not been confirmed by Symantec. All zero-day exploits known, or suspected, to have been used by this group are for vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer and Flash. Shifting focus of attacks More recently, Symantec telemetry has revealed Backdoor.Pirpi connections from compromised computers based in Hong Kong dating back to August 2015. The infections significantly increased in number towards the end of March 2016 and the beginning of April 2016. Additional investigations discovered related malware samples and determined that targeted organizations were political entities in Hong Kong. In at least some of these recent attacks, Buckeye used spear-phishing emails with a malicious .zip attachment. The .zip archive attached to the email contains a Windows shortcut (.lnk) file with the Microsoft Internet Explorer logo. Clicking on the shortcut ultimately leads to Backdoor.Pirpi being downloaded and executed on the affected computer. Who’s being targeted? From 2015 to date, Symantec identified approximately 82 organizations in various regions that had Buckeye tools present on their network. However, this is not an accurate picture of the targets of interest to Buckeye. The group casts a wide net while trawling for targets but only remains active on the networks of organizations it is interested in. Symantec determined a more accurate picture of Buckeye’s targets by looking at where Buckeye remained active on the network longer than a day, deployed additional tools, and spread onto multiple computers. After these filters were applied to our data, we found a total of 17 organizations, located in Hong Kong (13), the US (3), and the UK (1). Figure 1. Buckeye victims of interest by region (2015 to date) It should be noted that this data goes back to 2015 and that the proportion of targets in Hong Kong from March 2016 would be considerably higher. Up to mid-2015, Buckeye’s traditional targets were varying categories of US organizations, which match the types of victims seen in the UK. Buckeye interests changed substantially around June 2015 when the group began infecting organizations in Hong Kong. Infections in the UK and US ceased shortly after this time. Figure 2. Organizations that Buckeye targeted over time, per region Malware and tools Buckeye uses a number of hacking tools as well as malware. Many of the hacking tools are open source applications that have been patched or modified in some manner by Buckeye in an attempt to evade detection. Buckeye uses Backdoor.Pirpi, a remote access Trojan capable of reading, writing, and executing files and programs. Backdoor.Pirpi also collects information about the target’s local network, including the domain controller and workstations. As mentioned previously, Buckeye also uses a number of hacking tools, including the following: Keylogger: The keylogger is configured using the command line parameters: NetworkService, Replace, Install, Register and Unregister. These parameters install it as a service. The keylogger then records keystrokes in encrypted files, for example: thumbcache_96.dbx. It also gathers network information such as the MAC address, IP address, WINS, DHCP server, and gateway. RemoteCMD: This tool executes commands on remote computers, similar to the PsExec tool. Usage is: %s shareIp domain [USER INFORMATION|[USER NAME AND PASSWORD]] [/run:[COMMAND]] The commands to be passed consist of upload, download, Service (create, delete, start, stop), delete, rename, and AT PwDumpVariant: This tool imports lsremora.dll (often downloaded by the attacker as part of the toolset) and uses the GetHash export of this DLL. On execution, the tool injects itself into lsass.exe and is triggered with the argument “dig”. OSinfo: OSInfo is a general purpose, system information gathering tool. It has the following command line argument help: info <Server/Domain> [options] [options]: -d Domain -o OsInfo -t TsInfo -n NetuseInfo -s ShareInfo ShareDir -c Connect Test -a Local And Global Group User Info -l Local Group User Info -g Global Group User Info -ga Group Administrators -gp Group Power Users -gd Group Domain Admins -f <infile> //input server list from infile, OneServerOneLine info <\\server> <user> ChromePass: A tool from NirSoft used for recovering passwords stored in the Chrome browser. Lazagne: A compiled Python tool that extracts passwords from various locally installed application classes, such as web browsers. The full list is: chats, svn, wifi, mails, windows, database, sysadmin, and browsers. Buckeye seems to target file and print servers, which makes it likely the group is looking to steal documents. This, coupled with the group’s use of zero-day exploits in the past, customized tools, and the types of organizations being targeted would suggest that Buckeye is a state-sponsored cyberespionage group. Protection Symantec, Norton, and Blue Coat products protect against the activities of this cyberespionage group. Symantec and Norton products offer the following detections: Antivirus Backdoor.Pirpi Backdoor.Pirpi!dr Backdoor.Pirpi!gen1 Backdoor.Pirpi!gen2 Backdoor.Pirpi!gen3 Backdoor.Pirpi!gen4 Backdoor.Pirpi.A Backdoor.Pirpi.B Backdoor.Pirpi.C Backdoor.Pirpi.D Downloader.Pirpi Downloader.Pirpi!g1 Intrusion prevention system System Infected: Backdoor.Pirpi Activity 3 Update–September 14, 2016: Indicators of compromise We have compiled a list of indicators of compromise for the campaigns described in this blog. File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Endpoint Protection, Security Response, APT, Backdoor.Pirpi, Buckeye, Cyberespionage, Hong Kong, RAT, Remote Access Trojan Groups: Subscriptions (0)
APT10 Background APT10 (MenuPass Group) is a Chinese cyber espionage group that FireEye has tracked since 2009. They have historically targeted construction and engineering, aerospace, and telecom firms, and governments in the United States, Europe, and Japan. We believe that the targeting of these industries has been in support of Chinese national security goals, including acquiring valuable military and intelligence information as well as the theft of confidential business data to support Chinese corporations. PwC and BAE recently issued a joint blog detailing extensive APT10 activity. APT10’s Resurgence In June 2016, FireEye iSIGHT intelligence first reported that APT10 expanded their operations. The group was initially detected targeting a Japanese university, and more widespread targeting in Japan was subsequently uncovered. Further collaboration between FireEye as a Service (FaaS), Mandiant and FireEye iSIGHT intelligence uncovered additional victims worldwide, a new suite of tools and novel techniques. Global Targeting Using New Tools Leveraging its global footprint, FireEye has detected APT10 activity across six continents in 2016 and 2017. APT10 has targeted or compromised manufacturing companies in India, Japan and Northern Europe; a mining company in South America; and multiple IT service providers worldwide. We believe these companies are a mix of final targets and organizations that could provide a foothold in a final target. APT10 unveiled new tools in its 2016/2017 activity. In addition to the continued use of SOGU, the current wave of intrusions has involved new tools we believe are unique to APT10. HAYMAKER and SNUGRIDE have been used as first stage backdoors, while BUGJUICE and a customized version of the open source QUASARRAT have been used as second stage backdoors. These new pieces of malware show that APT10 is devoting resources to capability development and innovation. HAYMAKER is a backdoor that can download and execute additional payloads in the form of modules. It also conducts basic victim profiling activity, collecting the computer name, running process IDs, %TEMP% directory path and version of Internet Explorer. It communicates encoded system information to a single hard coded command and control (C2) server, using the system’s default User-Agent string. BUGJUICE is a backdoor that is executed by launching a benign file and then hijacking the search order to load a malicious dll into it. That malicious dll then loads encrypted shellcode from the binary, which is decrypted and runs the final BUGJUICE payload. BUGJUICE defaults to TCP using a custom binary protocol to communicate with the C2, but can also use HTTP and HTTPs if directed by the C2. It has the capability to find files, enumerate drives, exfiltrate data, take screenshots and provide a reverse shell. SNUGRIDE is a backdoor that communicates with its C2 server through HTTP requests. Messages are encrypted using AES with a static key. The malware’s capabilities include taking a system survey, access to the filesystem, executing commands and a reverse shell. Persistence is maintained through a Run registry key. QUASARRAT is an open-source RAT available here . The versions used by APT10 (1.3.4.0, 2.0.0.0, and 2.0.0.1) are not available via the public GitHub page, indicating that APT10 has further customized the open source version. The 2.0 versions require a dropper to decipher and launch the AES encrypted QUASARRAT payload. QUASARRAT is a fully functional .NET backdoor that has been used by multiple cyber espionage groups in the past. Traditional and Novel Methods This recent APT10 activity has included both traditional spear phishing and access to victim’s networks through service providers. (For more information on infection via service providers see M-Trends 2016 ). APT10 spear phishes have been relatively unsophisticated, leveraging .lnk files within archives, files with double extensions (e.g. “[Redacted]_Group_Meeting_Document_20170222_doc_.exe) and in some cases simply identically named decoy documents and malicious launchers within the same archive. In addition to the spear phishes, FireEye ISIGHT Intelligence has observed APT10 accessing victims through global service providers. Service providers have significant access to customer networks, enabling an attacker who had compromised a service provider to move laterally into the network of the service provider’s customer. In addition, web traffic between a service provider’s customer and a service provider is likely to be viewed as benign by network defenders at the customer, allowing the attacker to exfiltrate data stealthily. A notable instance of this observed by FireEye involved a SOGU backdoor that was set to communicate with its C2 through a server belonging to the victim’s service provider. APT10 actors issued the following commands to a SOGU implant at a victim: sc create CorWrTool binPath= "\"C:\Windows\vss\vixDiskMountServer.exe\"" start= auto displayname= "Corel Writing Tools Utility" type= own sc description CorWrTool "Corel Graphics Corporation Applications." ping -a [Redacted] psexec.exe <orghost> d.exe net view /domain:[Redacted] proxyconnect - "port": 3389, "server": "[IP Address Redacted]" These commands included setting persistence on the victim’s system. The actor then tested connectivity to an IP managed by the victim’s service provider. Once connectivity to the service provider IP was verified, the actor established the service provider IP as a proxy for the victim’s SOGU backdoor. This effectively routes SOGU malware traffic through the victim’s service provider, which likely indicates a foothold on the service provider’s network. The tactic also serves to mask malicious C2 and exfiltration traffic and make it appear innocuous. Implications APT10 is a threat to organizations worldwide. Their abuse of access to service provider networks demonstrates that peripheral organizations continue to be of interest to a malicious actor – especially those seeking alternative angles of attack. We believe the pace of APT10 operations may slow following the public disclosure by the PwC/BAE blog ; however, we believe they will return to their large-scale operations, potentially employing new tactics, techniques and procedures.
Introduction In July 2018, FireEye devices detected and blocked what appears to be APT10 (Menupass) activity targeting the Japanese media sector. APT10 is a Chinese cyber espionage group that FireEye has tracked since 2009, and they have a history of targeting Japanese entities . In this campaign, the group sent spear phishing emails containing malicious documents that led to the installation of the UPPERCUT backdoor. This backdoor is well-known in the security community as ANEL , and it used to come in beta or RC (release candidate) until recently. Part of this blog post will discuss the updates and differences we have observed across multiple versions of this backdoor. Attack Overview The attack starts with Microsoft Word documents containing a malicious VBA macro being attached to spear phishing emails. Although the contents of the malicious documents are unreadable (see Figure 3), the Japanese titles are related to maritime, diplomatic, and North Korean issues. Table 1 shows the UPPERCUT indicators of compromise (IoCs). File Name MD5 Size C2 自民党海洋総合戦略小委員会が政府に提言申し入れ.doc Government Recommendations from the Liberal Democratic Party’s Comprehensive Strategic Maritime Subcommittee 4f83c01e8f7507d23c67ab085bf79e97 843022 eservake.jetos[.]com 82.221.100.52 151.106.53.147 グテマラ大使講演会案内状.doc Invitation to Lecture by Guatemalan Ambassador f188936d2c8423cf064d6b8160769f21 720384 eservake.jetos[.]com 151.106.53.147 153.92.210.208 米国接近に揺れる北朝鮮内部.doc North Korean interior swayed by the approach of the United States cca227f70a64e1e7fcf5bccdc6cc25dd 733184 eservake.jetos[.]com 153.92.210.208 167.99.121.203 Table 1: UPPERCUT IoCs For the North Korean lure, a news article with an identical title was readily available online . It’s also worth noting that in the Guatemalan lure, the attacker used an unusual spelling of Guatemala in Japanese. The top result of a Google search using the same spelling led us to the event website for the lecture of the Guatemalan Ambassador, held in August 2018. Figure 1 shows the screenshot of the event page. Figure 1: Event Website for the Lecture of Guatemala Ambassador Figure 2 shows the macro function that displays the lure document. At the bottom of this function, we can see the readable text that matches the contact information found in Figure 1. Thus, people who would have an interest in Latin American issues may have been the targets of this campaign. Figure 2: Macro to display lure document The initial Word documents were password protected, likely in an effort to bypass detection. Once the password (delivered in the body of the email) is entered, the users are presented with a document that will request users to enable the malicious macro, as shown in Figure 3. Figure 3: Lure document Figure 4 shows what happens when the malicious macro is executed. Figure 4: Macro to install UPPERCUT The execution workflow is as follows: 1. The macro drops three PEM files, padre1.txt, padre2.txt, and padre3.txt, to the victim’s %TEMP% folder and then copies them from %TEMP% to the %AllUserProfile% folder. 2. The macro decodes the dropped files using Windows certutil.exe with the following commands (certutil.exe is a legitimate built-in command-line program to manage certificates in Windows): C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe" /c certutil -decode C:\ProgramData\padre1.txt C:\ProgramData\\GUP.txt C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe" /c certutil -decode C:\ProgramData\padre2.txt C:\ProgramData\\libcurl.txt C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe" /c certutil -decode C:\ProgramData\padre3.txt C:\ProgramData\\3F2E3AB9 3. The macro creates a copy of the files with their proper extensions using Extensible Storage Engine Utilities (esentutil.exe) with the following commands (esentutil.exe is also a legitimate program that is pre-installed in Windows): C:\Windows\System32\esentutl.exe" /y C:\ProgramData\\GUP.txt /d C:\ProgramData\GUP.exe /o C:\Windows\System32\esentutl.exe" /y C:\ProgramData\\libcurl.txt /d C:\ProgramData\libcurl.dll /o The dropped files include the following: GUP.exe : GUP, a free (LGPL) Generic Updater. GUP is an open source binary used by Notepad++ for software updates. The version used here is version 4.1 digitally signed by Notepad++, as shown in Figure 5. libcurl.dll: Malicious Loader DLL 3F2E3AB9: Encrypted shellcode Figure 5: Notepad++ signed updater 4. The macro launches the legitimate executable GUP.exe. The executable sideloads the malicious DLL (libcurl.dll), which decrypts and runs shellcode (3F2E3AB9) located in the same folder. The shellcode decodes and decompresses another DLL, which is an updated variant of UPPERCUT. Before decoding the DLL, the shellcode uses an anti-debug technique based on ntdll_NtSetInformationThread which causes the thread to be detached from the debugger, as shown in Figure 6 . The DLL is then loaded into memory and the randomly named exported function is called. Figure 6: Anti-debug technique used by shellcode 5. The macro deletes the initially dropped .txt files using Windows esentutl.exe and changes the document text to an embedded message. The complete attack overview is shown in Figure 7. Figure 7: Attack overview Several threat actors leverage the technique of using Windows certutil.exe for payload decoding , and APT10 continues to employ this technique. Evolution of UPPERCUT Figure 8 shows the timeline of updates for UPPERCUT. The PE compile time of loaders and the create time of droppers (Word documents) are plotted in the graph. The compile time of loaders in the newer version(s) are not shown here since the timestamps are overwritten and filled with zeroes. We don’t have visibility into UPPERCUT 5.2.x series, but it’s possible that minor revisions were released every few months between December 2017 and May 2018. Figure 8: Timeline of UPPERCUT updates Unlike previous versions, the exported function names are randomized in the latest version (Table 2). Encoded Payload Decoded Payload MD5 Size Import Hash Exported Function Version aa3f303c3319b14b4829fe2faa5999c1 322164 182ee99b4f0803628c30411b1faa9992 l7MF25T96n45qOGWX 5.3.2 126067d634d94c45084cbe1d9873d895 330804 5f45532f947501cf024d84c36e3a19a1 hJvTJcdAU3mNkuvGGq7L 5.4.1 fce54b4886cac5c61eda1e7605483ca3 345812 c1942a0ca397b627019dace26eca78d8 WcuH 5.4.1 Table 2: Static characteristics of UPPERCUT Another new feature in the latest UPPERCUT sample is that the malware sends an error code in the Cookie header if it fails to receive the HTTP response from the command and control (C2) server. The error code is the value returned by the GetLastError function and sent in the next beacon. This was likely included to help the attackers understand the problem if the backdoor is unable to receive a response (Figure 9). This Cookie header is a unique indicator that can be used for network-based detection. Figure 9: Example of callback Earlier versions of UPPERCUT used the hard-coded string “this is the encrypt key” for Blowfish encryption when communicating with a C2. However, in the latest version, the keys are hard-coded uniquely for each C2 address and use the C2’s calculated MD5 hash to determine which key to use, as shown in Figure 10. Figure 10: Blowfish key generation For instance, Table 3 lists the hard-coded C2 addresses, their MD5 hash, and the corresponding Blowfish key in the decoded payload of 126067d634d94c45084cbe1d9873d895. C2 MD5 Blowfish Key hxxp[:]//151.106.53[.]147/VxQG f613846eb5bed227ec1a5f8df7e678d0 bdc4b9f5af9868e028dd0adc10099a4e6656e9f0ad12b2e75a30f5ca0e34489d hxxp[:]//153.92.210[.]208/wBNh1 50c60f37922ff2ff8733aaeaa9802da5 fb9f7fb3c709373523ff27824ed6a31d800e275ec5217d8a11024a3dffb577dd hxxp[:]//eservake.jetos[.]com/qIDj c500dae1ca41236830b59f1467ee96c1 d3450966ceb2eba93282aace7d7684380d87c6621bbd3c4f621caa079356004a Default Default f12df6984bb65d18e2561bd017df29ee1cf946efa5e510802005aeee9035dd53 Table 3: Example of Blowfish keys In this example, the MD5 hash of hxxp[:]//151.106.53[.]147/VxQG will be f613846eb5bed227ec1a5f8df7e678d0. When the malware interacts with this URL, bdc4b9f5af9868e028dd0adc10099a4e6656e9f0ad12b2e75a30f5ca0e34489d will be selected as a Blowfish key. If the MD5 hash of the URL does not match any of the listed hashes, then the default key f12df6984bb65d18e2561bd017df29ee1cf946efa5e510802005aeee9035dd53 will be used. Another difference in the network traffic generated from the malware is that the encoded proxy information has been added in the URL query values during the C2 communication. Table 4 shows the parameters sent to C2 server from the backdoor in the newer versions. These are sent via POST request, as shown in Figure 9. Table 4: URL parameters Additionally, the command string is hashed using the same RGPH hashing algorithm as before. Two more commands, 0xD290626C85FB1CE3 and 0x409C7A89CFF0A727, are supported in the newer versions (Table 5). Commands Description 0x97A168D9697D40DD Download and validate file (XXHash comparison) from C2 server 0x7CF812296CCC68D5 Upload file to C2 server 0x652CB1CEFF1C0A00 Load PE file 0x27595F1F74B55278 Download, validate (XXHash comparison), execute file, and send output to C2 server 0xD290626C85FB1CE3 Format the current timestamp 0x409C7A89CFF0A727 Capture the desktop screenshot in PNG format and send it to C2 None of the above The received buffer is executed via cmd.exe and the output is then sent to the C2 server Table 5: Supported commands Conclusion While APT10 consistently targets the same geolocation and industry, the malware they use is actively evolving. In the newer versions of UPPERCUT, there is a significant change in the way backdoor initializes the Blowfish encryption key, which makes it harder for analysts to detect and decrypt the backdoor’s network communications. This shows that APT10 is very capable of maintaining and updating their malware. To mitigate the threat, users are advised to disable Office macros in their settings and not to open documents from unknown sources. FireEye Multi-Vector Execution (MVX) engine is able to recognize and block this threat with the following detection names: APT.Backdoor.Win.UPPERCUT FE_APT_Backdoor_Win32_UPPERCUT
China-linked APT10 Hackers Update Attack Techniques Recently attacks launched by the China-linked threat actor APT10 against the Japanese media sector revealed the use of updated tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs), FireEye says. Also known as menuPass and Stone Panda, which FireEye has been tracking since 2009, the group has a history of targeting Japanese entities. Last year, the group targeted entities in at least fourteen countries, including the website of a prominent U.S. trade association. As part of the new attacks, spear-phishing emails carrying malicious Word documents that attempt to deliver the UPPERCUT backdoor. Known in the security community as ANEL, the malware was apparently in pre-release form (beta or release candidate) until recently, FireEye’s security researchers say. The documents carry a malicious VBA macro and use Japanese titles related to maritime, diplomatic, and North Korean issues (but have unreadable contents). The documents were password protected, with the password provided in the email body. Recent UPPERCUT samples have the timestamps overwritten and filled with zeroes and the security researchers do not have visibility into the UPPERCUT 5.2.x series, but say that minor versions might have been released every few months between December 2017 and May 2018. The latest version also features randomized exported function names and was observed sending an error code in the Cookie header when failing to receive the HTTP response from the command and control (C&C) server. For each C&C address, the malware now has uniquely hard-coded keys it uses for encryption. Furthermore, in the generated network traffic, the encoded proxy information has been added in the URL query values during the C&C communication, FireEye said. The commands supported in the new version include: download and validate file; upload file to the C&C; load PE file; download, validate, execute file, and send output to C&C server; format the current timestamp; capture the desktop screenshot in PNG format and send it to C&C; execute received buffer via cmd.exe and send the output to the server. “While APT10 consistently targets the same geolocation and industry, the malware they use is actively evolving. In the newer versions of UPPERCUT, there is a significant change in the way backdoor initializes the Blowfish encryption key, which makes it harder for analysts to detect and decrypt the backdoor’s network communications. This shows that APT10 is very capable of maintaining and updating their malware,” FireEye concludes. Related: China-Linked Hackers Target U.S. Trade Group Related: China-based Hackers Target Managed Service Providers (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
China-Linked Group Uses New Malware in Japan Attacks A China-linked threat actor has been using a new Trojan in attacks aimed at individuals and organizations located in or with ties to Japan, Palo Alto Networks reported on Thursday. The group is known as menuPass, Stone Panda and APT10, and it has been active since at least 2009. The actor initially targeted defense contractors in the United States and elsewhere, and since 2014 it has also attacked organizations in Japan. menuPass is known for using PlugX and PoisonIvy, which have been observed in campaigns launched by several actors. However, a recent menuPass operation, which took place between September and November 2016, involved a new Trojan, dubbed ChChes, that is unique to this group. The recent operation targeted Japanese academics working in various scientific fields, a Japanese pharmaceutical company, and a US-based subsidiary of a Japanese manufacturing firm. The attacks started with spear-phishing emails that came from spoofed addresses, including of the Sasakawa Peace Foundation and the White House. One clue that linked ChChes to other tools used by menuPass was a shared import hash. However, experts also discovered connections in the infrastructure used in the recent and older attacks. ChChes was disguised as a Word document and it was signed using a certificate from Italian spyware maker Hacking Team. The certificate was leaked when the company was hacked in July 2015, but it had been revoked long before the latest menuPass attacks. Researchers believe attackers may have used it in an effort to make attribution more difficult. In addition to collecting information about the infected system, ChChes has modules that help it encrypt communications, execute shell commands, upload and download files, and load and execute DLLs, according to an analysis conducted by Japan’s Computer Emergency Response Team Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC). Palo Alto Networks believes ChChes is only used to download other malware onto infected computers, especially since it does not have a persistence mechanism. “In a successful intrusion, it may be only a first stage tool used by the attackers to orient where they landed in a network, and other malware will be deployed as a second stage layering for persistence and additional access as the attackers move laterally through a network,” researchers said in a blog post. Related: Japan Targeted in "Blackgear" Espionage Campaign Related: 18 Million Stolen Credentials Found in Japan Related: "Dust Storm" Attackers Target Japanese Critical Infrastructure Related: Blue Termite APT Targets Japanese Organizations (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
Operation Cloud Hopper: China-based Hackers Target Managed Service Providers Operation Cloud Hopper Targets Managed IT Service Providers and Their Clients A widespread campaign known to be targeting managed service providers (MSPs) in at least fourteen countries has been tied to the group known as APT10 and is thought to be operating out of China. These are the conclusions of a new report published this week by PwC UK and BAE Systems. As always with such reports, attribution is down to the weight of circumstantial evidence. The authors detail historical evidence that leads towards APT10, and domain registration timing evidence that suggests operation from within China's timezone. The authors do not suggest that APT10 is state-controlled, but they paint a picture that invites a conclusion that it is at least state-sponsored. Part of the historical evidence includes an overlap in malware used in attacks previously attributed to APT10. The group is believed to have primarily used Poison Ivy before switching to PlugX; and used both for a period of about nine months. From around mid-2016 it started to 're-tool' and is now using PlugX, ChChes, Quasar and RedLeaves. There are two big takeaways from this report (PDF): the reality that organizations are still not adequately securing their supply chain; and the potential that the US/China and UK/China agreements to curb economic espionage are now defunct. The authors describe a campaign that uses well-researched spear-phishing to first compromise MSPs. From here they obtain legitimate credentials to access the MSPs' client networks that align to APT10's targeting profile -- which the authors claim aligns with China's current five-year plan (FYP) for economic growth. Once on the target network, the attacker moves laterally to locate specific data of interest. This is collected and compressed before being moved back to the MSP and finally sent to a server under the attackers' control. This is a classic supply-chain attack, similar in concept to the iconic Target breach. Organizations are generally getting better at their own security but remain slack over the security of their suppliers -- in this case, their MSPs. "It is fundamental for organizations to come to terms with the fact that raising their own security posture is essential but not sufficient," warns Donato Capitella, senior security consultant at MWR InfoSecurity; "especially if they are then willing to interweave their IT systems with third parties whose security posture is insufficient. Organizations have to mandate higher security standards if they do not want to see all of their security investment undermined by trivial security mistakes on behalf of their partners. At the same time, third parties that can demonstrably step up their security game will become preferred over time and will undoubtedly have a higher chance to win important contacts in the future.?" The question over whether the US and UK accords with China over economic espionage is now defunct is posed, but not answered by the study. The US and UK are only two of fourteen countries affected, so they are not specifically targeted. It is MSPs in all of those countries that are the targets; and we are not told of any specific client organizations breached. The two accords specify 'economic espionage'; political espionage is still acceptable in both directions. It is perfectly possible, if not likely, that MSPs compromised in America and Britain have not been used for economic gain. Without further information from the authors, we simply do not know. It is likely that the attackers are the group known as APT10, and it is likely that they are based in China -- but unambiguous attribution and motivation is not possible based on this report. "Overall," comments Israel Barak, CISO of Cybereason, "the notion that China has decreased its efforts since 2015 to conduct economic espionage is preposterous. China is known for using cutouts and sympathetic agents to collect information on their behalf. China, Russia and other nation states frequently outsource wholesale hacking operations to individual groups and companies. In addition to their government services, these companies contract with, and provide services to, other clients. To do otherwise would greatly devalue the plausible deniability that is one of the major benefits of outsourcing. There are many reasons there is an uptick in outsourcing of operations because countries can rapidly expand capabilities in a short period of time, increase plausible deniability of actions, mitigate risk of detection, gain technical expertise that they cannot recruit directly into the government and decrease overall operational costs." But whether this indicates the end of the two China accords is a different matter. "The most significant challenge for investigators in the UK or US is tying digital activity to a person and organization in this massive breach or any breach for that matter. In reality, we live in a world where as more and more state-sponsored activity is being conducted by corporations, attribution gets even more difficult. To reiterate, it is too early in this particular instance to determine whether the Cameron-Xi accord was broken or is it simply a case of competitive intelligence and cybercrime that must be dealt with bilaterally between Great Britain and China." (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cloud Security Security Infrastructure
Poison Ivy RAT Campaign Leverages New Delivery Techniques A recently observed campaign using the Poison Ivy remote access tool (RAT) against individuals within the Mongolian government uses publicly available techniques that haven’t been observed in previous campaigns, FireEye reports. The Poison Ivy backdoor has been around for several years, targeting organizations all around the world, and was associated with a China-linked threat actor known as menuPass, Stone Panda and APT10. The malware packs capabilities such as key logging, screen and video capture, file transfers, password theft, system administration, traffic relaying, and more. FireEye didn’t attribute the new campaign to a specific actor, and told SecurityWeek in an email that it can’t make direct connections to a particular group at this time. The security firm said it lacks visibility into what the actors did and admitted it doesn’t know if they were successful. Still, the company did say that “espionage is a reasonable assumption for their motives.” What the newly observed campaign did show, however, was that the actor behind it is up-to-date with recent social engineering and evasion techniques and isn’t shy when it comes to using them. The attacks leveraged an AppLocker bypass that was publicly revealed last year, as well as fileless execution and persistence, and benign documents to minimize user suspicion of malicious activity. The malware was distributed via Word documents with malicious macros, and the threat actor was using social engineering to trick users into enabling these macros. The malicious documents were delivered via email, claiming to contain instructions for logging into webmail or information regarding a state law proposal, FireEye explains. The malicious macros in the documents were designed to invoke Regsvr32, a command-line utility designed for registering DLLs in the registry, to download a Windows Script Component file (SCT file) by passing the URL of the SCT file as an argument. This technique was demonstrated last year to effectively bypass AppLocker, the Microsoft application whitelisting solution that prevents unknown executables from running on a system. In this campaign, the malicious SCT file was designed to invoke WScript to launch PowerShell in hidden mode with an encoded command, FireEye reports. After the PowerShell command is decoded, another layer of PowerShell instructions emerges, serving two purposes: to download a decoy document from the Internet and open it in a second winword.exe process using the Start-Process cmdlet; and to download and run another PowerShell script named f0921.ps1. The third stage PowerShell script configures an encoded command persistently as base64 string in the HKCU: \Console\FontSecurity registry key, along with an HKCU\CurrentVersion\Run\SecurityUpdate value to launch the encoded PowerShell payload stored in the previously configured key. Thus, the PowerShell payload is executed every time the user logs in to the system. A fourth stage PowerShell script in the HKCU\Console\FontSecurity registry borrows from the publicly available Inject-LocalShellCode script from PowerSploit to inject shellcode, researchers explain. The shellcode has a custom XOR-based decryption loop that uses a single byte key (0xD4), and was designed to inject the Poison Ivy backdoor into userinit.exe. The decrypted shellcode also revealed content and configuration related to Poison Ivy. “Although Poison Ivy has been a proven threat for some time, the delivery mechanism for this backdoor uses recent publicly available techniques that differ from previously observed campaigns. Through the use of PowerShell and publicly available security control bypasses and scripts, most steps in the attack are performed exclusively in memory and leave few forensic artifacts on a compromised host,” FireEye says. Related: August Stealer Uses PowerShell for Fileless Infection Related: Windows AppLocker Bypassed to Execute Remote Scripts (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
China-Linked Hackers Target U.S. Trade Group A threat actor linked to China hijacked the website of a prominent U.S. trade association in an effort to deliver reconnaissance malware to individuals who accessed certain web pages. Fidelis Cybersecurity published a report detailing the campaign on Thursday, just hours before a meeting between U.S. President Donald Trump and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping. The company noticed in late February that the website of the National Foreign Trade Council (NFTC) had been hacked and set up to serve malware in what is known as a watering hole attack, or a strategic web compromise. Experts believe the attack ended by March 2, when links injected into the NFTC website had been removed. Evidence uncovered by investigators led them to believe that the attack was conducted by a China-linked cyber espionage group known as APT10, MenuPass and Stone Panda. Fidelis has dubbed the campaign Operation TradeSecret. According to researchers, the hackers set up certain web pages of the NFTC website to serve a reconnaissance framework known as Scanbox. The tool has been used for several years, including in attacks aimed at U.S. organizations and the Uyghur population in China. Scanbox has various plugins that allow attackers to collect information about the infected system and the software installed on it, and log keystrokes from the web browser. The harvested data can then be used to launch further attacks against the targeted individuals. In the case of the NFTC, whose board of directors includes some of the largest private sector companies in the United States, APT10 targeted only specific web pages. One of them was a registration page for a board of directors meeting, which suggests that people or organizations expected to attend the meeting had been targeted. “All organizations that have representatives on the board of directors of the NFTC -- or those who would have a reason to visit the site -- should investigate potentially impacted hosts using indicators provided in this report,” warned Fidelis. “Since the reconnaissance tool is typically used to enable future targeting campaigns, it should be assumed that targeted individuals will be subject to further attacks -- such as spearphishing campaigns.” The security firm said it notified the lobbying group of the breach. SecurityWeek has reached out to NFTC for comment and will update this article if the organization responds. Fidelis also reported seeing a similar campaign involving a fake website of Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The APT10 attacks targeting Japan were also detailed in a report published this week by PwC UK and BAE Systems. The research conducted by the two companies focused on attacks launched by APT10 against managed service providers (MSPs) in at least fourteen countries. Related: China-Linked Group Uses New Malware in Japan Attacks Related: Chinese Spying Drops in Volume, Becomes More Focused Related: U.S. Firms Targeted by China Even After Cyber Deal (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
DHS Warns of Attacks on Managed Service Providers The United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) this week issued an alert on ongoing activity from an advanced persistent threat (APT) actor targeting global managed service providers (MSPs). The activity, DHS says, involves attempts to infiltrate the networks of global MSPs, which provide remote management of customer IT and end-user systems. The use of MSP increases an organization’s virtual enterprise infrastructure footprint, but also creates a large attack surface for cyber criminals and nation-state actors, DHS’ United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) points out. The newly released alert, TA18-276B, is related to activity that DHS' National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) warned about in April 2017. The same activity was associated by security firms with a Chinese actor referred to as APT10, but which is also known as menuPass and Stone Panda. The group is believed to be state-sponsored. Tracked since 2009, the group has historically targeted mainly Japanese entities. Last year, the group was observed targeting entities in at least fourteen countries, including the website of a prominent U.S. trade association. The threat actor is known for the use of a broad range of malware families, including the PlugX RAT, ChChes, Quasar, RedLeaves, the UPPERCUT backdoor, NetTraveler (aka TravNet), and ZeroT. “Since May 2016, APT actors have used various tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) for the purposes of cyber espionage and intellectual property theft. APT actors have targeted victims in several U.S. critical infrastructure sectors, including Information Technology (IT), Energy, Healthcare and Public Health, Communications, and Critical Manufacturing,” DHS’ new alert reads. DHS’ new technical alert also includes information on the protective measures organizations should take to mitigate the risks associated with their MSP, which could expose them to APT activity. These include restricting access to networks and systems, using a dedicated Virtual Private Network (VPN) for MSP connection, using firewalls, implement best practices for password and permission management, and incorporate operational controls. Related: China-linked APT10 Hackers Update Attack Techniques Related: Operation Cloud Hopper: China-based Hackers Target Managed Service Providers (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Don't Fall Victim to IP Theft and Corporate Espionage If the infamous bank robber, Willie Sutton, were alive today and honed his cyber skills, he might turn his attention to corporate espionage. Why? Because, as he once said about banks, “that’s where the money is.” Unlike “traditional cyberespionage” which typically takes place between nation-state actors and is used for political gain or to compromise national security, corporate espionage targets proprietary information from private entities for commercial advantage, although in some cases nation-states will target private entities in industries such as energy given their national importance. Over the past two years, several threat actors have launched corporate espionage campaigns against companies in pharmaceuticals, chemicals and related industries with the aim of profiting from proprietary information such as intellectual property, R&D material on new products and technologies as well as financial information. The actors behind these campaigns are each known by different names, but include “APT10”, “Crouching Yeti”, “FIN4”, “Operation Ghoul”, “Patchwork”, “Poseidon”, “Tick” and “Turla.” How do these threat groups go about these campaigns? Much like Willie Sutton, a master of disguise who would infiltrate banks and stores impersonating a messenger, postal worker, maintenance man or even a police officer, espionage threat actors use spearphishing, watering holes, and malicious software downloads to disguise the initial infection. Once inside the network, they typically use custom backdoor malware to achieve lateral movement, data exfiltration and persistence. To better understand what’s required to mitigate risk, let’s take a closer look at just a handful of these threat groups and the primary tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) they feature in their campaigns. The most technically sophisticated use detailed social engineering techniques, zero-day exploits and weaknesses in the supply chain. For example, Tick uses a variety of methods to gain access to victim networks, such as spearphishing, watering hole attacks and software exploitations including a zero-day vulnerability to access company networks. The group has used custom malware, as well as legitimate penetration testing tools to move laterally within a network, escalate privileges, harvest credentials and exfiltrate data. Recently, Tick has adopted a steganography technique, embedding malicious code in an image file downloaded from a compromised website, thus bypassing firewalls and avoiding detection by anti-virus solutions. Another technically sophisticated group that continues to evolve is APT10. The group first accesses target networks by compromising a service provider within the supply chain through spearphishing techniques, and then moves laterally to gain access to their primary target. More recent campaigns involve custom tools the group has developed that contain “decoy documents” to deliver a variety of payloads that can execute a range of activities including enabling communication with command and control (C2) servers, finding files, exfiltrating data and taking screen shots. Groups with lesser technical capability tend to rely on commercial malware variants, but should not be discounted. Operation Ghoul is one such example – targeting more than 130 organizations in 18 months, the group is intent on its mission. Operation Ghoul uses spearphishing emails, mostly sent to executives and other senior employees at target organizations. The messages have contained compressed executables with data-harvesting malware, reportedly based on commercial spyware. The malware logs keystrokes and collects passwords, screenshots, account data from browsers and clipboard data and communicates using a single C2 server. Microsoft Office vulnerabilities (known or unidentified) are often exploited by espionage threat actors as part of their campaigns. Patchwork and Turla are prime examples. Patchwork commonly uses phishing emails and malicious sites to deliver Microsoft Office or PowerPoint files that exploit several known vulnerabilities, including: ● CVE-2012-1856● CVE-2014-4114● CVE-2017-0199● CVE-2017-8570● CVE-2015-1641● CVE-2012-0158 These vulnerabilities allow an attacker to remotely exploit arbitrary code on several Microsoft Windows operating systems, as well as some Microsoft applications, which are used by organizations across industries. Turla also uses vulnerabilities that were not publicly reported at their time of use (zero-day exploits) including CVE-2017-0261, CVE-2017-0262 and CVE-2017-0263. These vulnerabilities in several Microsoft Office versions allow for remote code execution. Given the TTPs just discussed, the following tips can help organizations mitigate risk of IP theft and corporate espionage and strengthen their security posture: Spearphishing and watering hole attacks: Provide phishing and general online security training to every employee. Best practices include limiting online activity to reputable sites, avoiding opening unsolicited attachments and performing extra checks before interacting with suspicious email messages. Malicious software downloads: Individuals should only download applications from legitimate sites. Be sure to review security and access permissions granted to these programs. Credential harvesting and account takeover: Mandate strong password security across the organization, ensuring passwords are of appropriate length and not reused across accounts. Monitor for exposed credentials on sites like haveibeenpwned.com and use multi-factor authentication for accounts where possible. Supply chain attacks: Suppliers are often given undue and wholesale access and capabilities to company networks. Organizations should apply technological controls and access restrictions to suppliers, such as separation of duties and least privilege, as well as network isolation and segmentation of the supply chain. Exploitation of vulnerabilities: Regularly apply patches as they are released and monitor for known security vulnerabilities being exploited in the wild. Defense in depth: Consider a broad security strategy guided by four main principles: use of host-based firewalls and IP-whitelisting measures, segmenting networks and restricting workstation-to-workstation communication, applying patches and disabling unneeded legacy features, and restricting access to important data to only those who are required to have it. For Willie Sutton, banks were high-value targets and tellers had no choice but to hand over the money. Today, high-value targets for corporate espionage include any organization with proprietary information that can be sold for financial gain. Fortunately, by following these steps organizations don’t have to “hand over the money,” but can proactively mitigate risk of IP theft and corporate espionage. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Alastair Paterson is CEO and Co-Founder of Digital Shadows. Alastair has worked for over a decade advising secure government and FTSE 100 clients on large-scale data analytics for risk and intelligence. Before founding Digital Shadows in 2011, Alastair was International Propositions Manager at BAE Systems Detica working with clients in the Gulf, Europe and Australasia. He holds a first class MEng in Computer Science from the University of Bristol. Previous Columns by Alastair Paterson:Hackers Gear Up for the Holidays TooTapping into Diversity to More Effectively Mitigate Digital RiskMitigate Risk From Malicious and Accidental InsidersHow Cybercriminals Are Using Blockchain to Their AdvantageFour Ways to Mitigate Cyber Risks for ERP Applications 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: INDUSTRY INSIGHTS Cybercrime
Researchers Warn Against Knee-Jerk Attribution of 'Olympic Destroyer' Attack Attribution has become a buzzword in malware analysis. It is very difficult to achieve -- but is necessary in a world that is effectively engaged in the early stages of a geopolitical cyberwar. Malware researchers tend to stop short of saying, 'this country or that actor is behind this attack'. Nevertheless, they are not shy in dropping hints, leaving the reader to make subjective conclusions. They have done just that with the recent cyber-attacks against the PyeongChang Winter Olympic Games. The New York Times comments, "Security companies would not say definitively who was behind the attack, but some digital crumbs led to a familiar culprit: Fancy Bear, the Russian hacking group with ties to Russian intelligence services." Microsoft tweeted, "Fresh analysis of the #cyberattack against systems used in the Pyeongchang #WinterOlympics reveals #EternalRomance SMB exploit." EternalRomance -- one of the leaked NSA exploits -- along with SMB was employed in the Bad Rabbit ransomware which has been likened to NotPetya which the UK government today ascribed to the Russian intelligence services. Intezer is a firm that specializes in recognizing code reuse. It has analyzed the Olympic attacks, and comments, "We have found numerous small code fragments scattered throughout different samples of malware in these attacks that are uniquely linked to APT3, APT10, and APT12 which are known to be affiliated with Chinese threat actors." Recorded Future comments (PDF), "Our own research turned up trivial but consistent code similarities between Olympic Destroyer modules and several malware families used by the Lazarus Group. These include standard but different functions within BlueNoroff Banswift malware, the LimaCharlie family of Lazarus malware from the Novetta Blockbuster report, and a module from the Lazarus SpaSpe malware meant to target domain controllers." Lazarus is, of course, considered to be synonymous with North Korea. But while saying that there are code similarity hints at connections with North Korea, Recorded Future warns against jumping to any specific conclusion. "The trouble with this technique is that while code similarity can be stated with certainty, down to a percentage of bytes shared, the results are not straightforward and require expert interpretation. The Olympic Destroyer malware is a perfect example of how we can be led astray by this clustering technique when our standard for similarity is too low." Code analysis suggests that Russia, China or North Korea, or any combination thereof, or all, or none of these state actors were behind the Winter Olympics attack. Juan Andres Guerrero-Saade, principal security researcher at the Insikt Group at Recorded Future says: “Complex malware operations make us take pause to reevaluate research methods and make sure the research community is not being misled by its own eagerness to attribute attacks." Priscilla Moriuchi, director of strategic threat development at Recorded Future says: “Attribution continues to be important in cyber-attacks because it shapes the victim, public, and government responses. However, accurate attribution is both more crucial and more difficult to determine than ever because adversaries are constantly evolving new techniques and the expertise required to identify a sophisticated actor keeps increasing.” This doesn't mean that Recorded Future drops no hints of its own. It notes that this was a sophisticated two-pronged attack probably involving an earlier malware attack designed to steal credentials to be used during the opening ceremony against both the organizers and the infrastructure providers. In other words, it could only be achieved by a highly resourced attacker. The attack's purpose was disruption rather than absolute destruction. While systems were wiped, they were left able to reboot -- allowing the possibility of eventual data recovery and reinstatement. There is no immediately apparent attempt at extortion -- removing financial motivation and leaving the probability of political motivation. The 'hints' contained in the code similarity point variously at Russia, China and North Korea. Recorded Future adds another possibility: "The co-occurrence of code overlap in the malware may be indicative of a false flag operation, attempting to dilute evidence and confuse researchers." In other words, without access to 5Eyes-quality wiretaps and intercepted voice conversations (which intelligence agencies would be unwilling to reveal) it is all but impossible to attribute this, or any other cyber-attack, with 100% confidence. As Recorded Future concludes, "For the time being, attribution remains inconclusive." Related: The Increasing Effect of Geopolitics on Cybersecurity Related: Gold Dragon Implant Linked to Pyeongchang Olympics Attacks Related: Geopolitical Context a Prerequisite for Finished Intelligence (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
Report Highlights Business Risks Drawn From Geopolitical Flashpoints Flashpoint's mid-year Business Risk Intelligence Report analyzes data from geopolitics and the deep and dark web to show how threat actors and their motivations have evolved over the first six months of 2017, and to provide insight into what new threats might appear in the coming months. It comprises sections covering both the primary nation-states and the main threat sub-sections. Russia The report notes the continuing Russian effort to interfere with western elections; especially during the approach to the German national elections in September 2017. The Shadow Brokers (TSB) have re-emerged from dormancy, and are generally considered to be tied to the Russian state. Internally, Russia is tightening control over dissidents and internet usage. Ruslan Stoyanov was arrested over un-specified charges relating to 'treason'. From prison, he warned the regime against "the consequences of partnering with domestic 'patriot-thieves' (cybercriminals). "Moscow is moving quickly towards establishing an unprecedented level of information control within the country's borders" warns Flashpoint, "...cementing the state's authority over online activities." China Chinese state-sponsored activity has remained low following the Xi-Obama agreement made in September 2015. Nevertheless, there has been some activity. In early March, a DHS report described activity under the 'Pleasantly Surprised' campaign spear-phishing commercial entities in the financial, retail and technology sectors. APT10 was also linked to a campaign targeting the National Foreign Trade Council around the time of the US/China summit in early April. Other probable Chinese activities included attacks against MSSPs and attempts to compromise South Korea's Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) anti-ballistic missile system. Flashpoint notes that China remains a potent cyber force, but seems to have turned the focus of its attention to Asian and geographically nearby targets. Internally it continues to increase control over cyber activities with new regulations on data flows and VPNs. Five Eyes The Five Eyes group of nations is described as the "pinnacle of cyber capabilities of all actors in cyberspace" -- but one that is not considered a 'threat actor' to other western nations. However, the NSA continues to be embarrassed by the TSB leaks, while the CIA has been embarrassed by WikiLeaks' Vault7 leaks. However, "Despite the synchronicity between the ShadowBrokers releases and the Wikileaks dump, there is no known connection between the two," says Flashpoint. Iran Iran is described as a 'moderately-capable threat actor in cyberspace', and one that has concentrated on exploiting vulnerabilities in critical infrastructure systems. While it has been relatively quiet in recent months, Flashpoint warns that any attempt by the US Administration to dismantle the Iranian nuclear accord is likely "to be accompanied by renewed Iranian efforts in the cyber domain." However, for the moment, it believes that the "re-election of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani is likely to have a stabilizing effect on Iranian cyber activities." North Korea North Korea is considered to be a potent threat, but one that has been relatively quiet this year following China's apparent withdrawal of political support. Nevertheless, there have been at least two spear-phishing campaigns: one against South Korean research organizations, and the other against North Korean defectors. The report notes the suggested links of the WannaCry ransomware to the North Korean Lazarus Group. Its own findings suggest a Chinese-speaking author; but adds these two findings are not mutually exclusive. Geopolitically, the Trump administration has said, the "era of strategic patience is over." Flashpoint concludes, "The North's current apparent quiescence in cyberspace may come to a swift end in the event that the United States reacts strongly to the country's sixth nuclear test, for which many analysts believe that Pyongyang is preparing." Just this week, US-CERT released a technical alert on behalf of the DHS and the FBI to warn organizations of North Korea’s “Hidden Cobra” activities, particularly distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. Disruptive and Attention-Seeking Actors Such actors have been quieter than usual during the first half of 2017. Flashpoint believes it may be because they are starved of publicity due to the media's current focus on the new administration and the FBI/Russia probe. Other reasons may be industry's improving security stance and, for example, the increased awareness among police departments of SWATTING techniques. Cybercriminals Cybercriminals are continuing to innovate and evolve. The switch from targeting individuals to targeting organizations continues, and the focus on targeting healthcare remains. "Flashpoint has observed a variety of actors such as "svako," "hackworld," "covrig3500," and more targeting healthcare clinics across the United States in efforts to monetize the stolen data." Business Email Compromise (BEC) is growing. In April, Google and Facebook became victims in a scam that netted $100 million for the scammers. Hacktivists Flashpoint notes a decline in western hacktivism. "Thus far in 2017," it says, "the hacktivist landscape has been dominated by a small subset of largely-ineffectual hacktivist operations linked to the Anonymous collective, as well as activity emanating out of Turkey and China in particular." Jihadi Actors Jihadi actors have shown little growth in technical skill over the first half of 2017. "Due to the lack of technical acumen within most jihadi hacker groups, their victims tend to be poorly-defended or smaller, low-hanging-fruit websites." The most active hacker group is the United Cyber Caliphate (UCC) which has called for all pro-ISIS hackers to unite under one banner, including the newly-created "Caliphate Cyber Terrorism Army (CCTA)." There is, however, no evidence that the group is directed or supported by ISIS itself. It has also suffered from the loss of at least three of its leaders to US airstrikes -- the most recent being Osed Agha in March 2017, and the most notable being Junaid Hussain, or "TriCk" of TeaMp0isoN. The physical threat to western nations has, however, increased. As the strength of the Isis Caliphate has dwindled, it has turned to recruiting and encouraging the "lone mujahid in the West." Although not mentioned by Flashpoint as part of this report, this has led to increasing demands from western governments to curb end-to-end encryption, and for the social media giants to co-operate more closely with government. Flashpoint believes that a deeper understanding of geopolitics and the interaction with cyber threats can help business better prepare for both current and future threats. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Risk Management Cybercrime
China-Linked Spies Target Taiwan With IE Exploit A cyberespionage group linked to China has been spotted targeting government organizations in Taiwan using an Internet Explorer vulnerability patched by Microsoft earlier this year. Researchers have been monitoring a campaign they’ve dubbed “CNACOM,” in which attackers have used compromised websites to deliver a piece of malware. One of the compromised sites, known as a watering hole, belonged to a major public service organization in Taiwan. When users accessed this website’s registration page, an iframe injected into the footer loaded an exploit landing page. The Internet Explorer vulnerability leveraged by this exploit, tracked as CVE-2016-0189, was fixed by Microsoft in May, but it had been seen in targeted attacks against users in South Korea before a patch was made available. A few weeks after Microsoft resolved the flaw, researchers published a proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit. The PoC code was used by cybercriminals to integrate the security hole into several exploit kits. The same PoC code has been used in the CNACOM campaign, but the payload has been invoked through an Internet Explorer sandbox escape flaw tracked as CVE-2015-0016. In the CNACOM attacks, the exploit code collects information from the device, including its IP address. If the victim uses Internet Explorer and the IP address is known to belong to the Taiwanese government, the exploit delivers a variant of the malware dubbed Ixeshe. Ixeshe has been around since at least 2009 and it has been observed in attacks aimed at East Asian governments and electronics manufacturers, including in Taiwan. The malware was also linked to the attacks launched in 2012 against The New York Times. The group behind Ixeshe, also known as APT12, Numbered Panda and DynCalc, is believed to be operating out of China. According to Zscaler, the Ixeshe variant spotted in the recent Taiwan attacks is different from older versions as the campaign codes it uses are embedded into the malware, which could indicate that the threat relies on a more centralized tracking system. Zscaler is not the only security firm to monitor China-linked attacks aimed at Taiwan’s government. Palo Alto Networks and FireEye also reported seeing such attacks in the past few months. Related: China-Linked Cyberspies Lure Victims With Security Conference Invites Related: China-Linked APT3 Group Focuses Attacks on Hong Kong (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
APT Attackers Target Japanese Word Processor Zero-Day Symantec has issued an alert to warn organizations about targeted attacks against a previously undocumented security hole in Ichitaro, a word processing software program used by central and local governments as well as educational institutions in Japan. Justsystems, the company that markets the Ichitaro software, has confirmed the issue and warns that live attacks are leading to full remote system compromise. According to a post on the Symantec Security Response blog, the attacks may be linked to the APT 12 group that successfully hacked into the New York Times earlier this year. Symantec said it first spotted attempts to exploit the Ichitaro vulnerability in September 2013. "Our analysis revealed that the samples, detected as Trojan.Mdropper, for these attacks all contained the same back door Trojan, which Symantec detected as Backdoor.Vidgrab. If the exploit is successful, in theory the shell code would be executed to drop and launch the simplified Chinese version of notepad.exe while compromising the system, with the back door connecting to a remote site," Symantec warned. The company noted that the identical backdoor variant was used as a payload for a watering hole attack that hit a Microsoft Internet Explorer vulnerability which was patched in October 2013. The research team is speculating that the same malware group is using vulnerabilities in multiple software to launch APT attacks. "[This backdoor] is known to be used to target the Asia-Pacific region with government sectors being the primary targets according to Trend Micro. Symantec telemetries do not dispute this claim," the company said. In the latest Ichitaro attacks, Symantec says the Trojan is delivered as e-mail attachments with Ichataro's .jtd file extension. However, the malicious files are actually rich text format files that cannot be opened using Microsoft Word as they are designed to work only with Ichitaro. "An interesting point of this attack campaign is that the malware group used unusual subject lines and email content that are not commonly used in targeted attacks," Symantec said. This is a classic spear-phishing attack that attempts to lure the targets to a popular Japanese online shopping site. If the target opens the file, the zero-day vulnerability is exploited and malware is placed on the machine that attempts to connect to a web site associated with the APT 12 group. Security researchers are noticing a spike in advanced attacks against Japanese targets. Earlier this year, Kaspersky Lab warned about the Icefog cyber-espionage campaign that targeted governmental institutions, military contractors, maritime and ship-building groups, telecom operators, satellite operators, industrial and high technology companies and mass media, mainly in South Korea and Japan. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ryan is the host of the SecurityWeek podcast series "Security Conversations". He is the head of Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis team in the USA and has extensive experience in computer security user education, specializing in operating system and third-party application vulnerabilities, zero-day attacks, social engineering and social networking threats. Prior to joining Kaspersky Lab, he monitored security and hacker attack trends for over 10 years, writing for eWEEK magazine and the ZDNet Zero Day blog. Follow Ryan on Twitter @ryanaraine.Previous Columns by Ryan Naraine:Podcast: Thomas Rid on Cyberwar, Attribution and the Crypto DebatePodcast: Jeremiah Grossman on the Attacker-Defender MentalityMozilla Pushes for FBI Disclosure of Tor Browser Zero-dayFive-year-old SAP Vulnerability Haunts Global BusinessesAdobe Flash Zero-Day Under Attack Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
+2 2 0 2 Votes Symantec Official Blog Yet Another Zero-Day: Japan Hit with Ichitaro Vulnerability By: Symantec Security Response Symantec Employee Created 14 Nov 2013 0 Comments : 日本語 Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email The security industry, as well as IT administrators across the globe, has been busy recently dealing with multiple zero-day vulnerabilities emerging in quick succession. Before anyone has time to draw a breath after the barrage, yet another zero-day has appeared, ready to cause people problems. Well, for people in Japan at least, since the vulnerability is in the Japanese word-processing software Ichitaro. Ichitaro developer JustSystems recently announced that the Multiple Ichitaro Products Unspecified Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2013-5990), allowing the execution of arbitrary code, exists in Ichitaro products. In September 2013, Symantec discovered attacks in the wild attempting to exploit this vulnerability; however, the exploits did not properly work to compromise the system in our testing environment. As always, we exercised the responsible vulnerability disclosure process following this discovery. Our analysis revealed that the samples, detected as Trojan.Mdropper, for these attacks all contained the same back door Trojan, which Symantec detected as Backdoor.Vidgrab. If the exploit is successful, in theory the shell code would be executed to drop and launch the simplified Chinese version of notepad.exe while compromising the system, with the back door connecting to a remote site. Coincidently, the identical Backdoor.Vidgrab variant was used as a payload for a watering hole attack exploiting the Microsoft Internet Explorer Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2013-3893), which was patched in October 2013. It is reasonable to assume that the same malware group, or another group with close connections, is behind the attacks that utilized the Internet Explorer and Ichitaro vulnerabilities. Backdoor.Vidgrab is known to be used to target the Asia-Pacific region with government sectors being the primary targets according to TrendMicro. Symantec telemetries do not dispute this claim. Although Trojan.Mdropper is sent to targets as email attachments with the Ichitaro file extension .jtd, the files are actually .rtf or rich text format files. The files cannot be opened using Microsoft Word as they are designed to work only with Ichitaro. An interesting point of this attack campaign is that the malware group used unusual subject lines and email content that are not commonly used in targeted attacks. One of the emails used in this targeted attack campaign can be seen in the following figure. Figure. Email used in targeted attack The email solicits a recipient to buy various goods from a popular Japanese online shopping site. The email also states that all members will earn double the usual points for their purchases and will also receive free shipping. The email attachment is a flyer containing the Ichitaro exploit. In June 2013, Symantec came across a similar Trojan.Mdropper variant with the .jtd file extension, sent to an organization that received the malware mentioned above. The main difference is the file format. While rich text format was used in the recent attacks, a Microsoft Word document file with an embedded Microsoft graph chart was used for the previous attack campaign. The specially-crafted Word document was created with Microsoft Office in the Simplified Chinese language. According to our research, this exploit code also failed to successfully exploit a vulnerability. If successful, the shellcode would have downloaded malware from the following URL : http://googles.al[REMOVED]my.com/index.html The server hosting this domain has been associated with the group referred to as APT 12 by Mandiant. The malware itself is detected as Trojan.Krast. The attackers, possibly belonging to the APT12 group who may have also developed BackdoorVidgrab, are persistently targeting similar, if not the identical, targets by attempting to exploit Ichitaro. The attackers may also be using the targets as guinea pigs to test if the exploit code works properly. The attack may also be a precursor, the attackers could have run the tests in order to find effective email contents and subject lines, for example, that are enticing enough lure targets into opening the malicious attachment. The .jtd files described in this blog are detected as Trojan.Mdropper. Also Symantec’s .Cloud products effectively block emails with the malicious Ichitaro attachment. To prevent a possible compromise, Ichitaro users are advised to download and apply the latest patch from JustSystems. File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Endpoint Protection, Security Response, Backdoor.Vidgrab, Trojan.Krast, Trojan.Mdropper, zero-day Groups: Subscriptions (0)
APT Attackers Target Japanese Word Processor Zero-Day Symantec has issued an alert to warn organizations about targeted attacks against a previously undocumented security hole in Ichitaro, a word processing software program used by central and local governments as well as educational institutions in Japan. Justsystems, the company that markets the Ichitaro software, has confirmed the issue and warns that live attacks are leading to full remote system compromise. According to a post on the Symantec Security Response blog, the attacks may be linked to the APT 12 group that successfully hacked into the New York Times earlier this year. Symantec said it first spotted attempts to exploit the Ichitaro vulnerability in September 2013. "Our analysis revealed that the samples, detected as Trojan.Mdropper, for these attacks all contained the same back door Trojan, which Symantec detected as Backdoor.Vidgrab. If the exploit is successful, in theory the shell code would be executed to drop and launch the simplified Chinese version of notepad.exe while compromising the system, with the back door connecting to a remote site," Symantec warned. The company noted that the identical backdoor variant was used as a payload for a watering hole attack that hit a Microsoft Internet Explorer vulnerability which was patched in October 2013. The research team is speculating that the same malware group is using vulnerabilities in multiple software to launch APT attacks. "[This backdoor] is known to be used to target the Asia-Pacific region with government sectors being the primary targets according to Trend Micro. Symantec telemetries do not dispute this claim," the company said. In the latest Ichitaro attacks, Symantec says the Trojan is delivered as e-mail attachments with Ichataro's .jtd file extension. However, the malicious files are actually rich text format files that cannot be opened using Microsoft Word as they are designed to work only with Ichitaro. "An interesting point of this attack campaign is that the malware group used unusual subject lines and email content that are not commonly used in targeted attacks," Symantec said. This is a classic spear-phishing attack that attempts to lure the targets to a popular Japanese online shopping site. If the target opens the file, the zero-day vulnerability is exploited and malware is placed on the machine that attempts to connect to a web site associated with the APT 12 group. Security researchers are noticing a spike in advanced attacks against Japanese targets. Earlier this year, Kaspersky Lab warned about the Icefog cyber-espionage campaign that targeted governmental institutions, military contractors, maritime and ship-building groups, telecom operators, satellite operators, industrial and high technology companies and mass media, mainly in South Korea and Japan. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ryan is the host of the SecurityWeek podcast series "Security Conversations". He is the head of Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis team in the USA and has extensive experience in computer security user education, specializing in operating system and third-party application vulnerabilities, zero-day attacks, social engineering and social networking threats. Prior to joining Kaspersky Lab, he monitored security and hacker attack trends for over 10 years, writing for eWEEK magazine and the ZDNet Zero Day blog. Follow Ryan on Twitter @ryanaraine.Previous Columns by Ryan Naraine:Podcast: Thomas Rid on Cyberwar, Attribution and the Crypto DebatePodcast: Jeremiah Grossman on the Attacker-Defender MentalityMozilla Pushes for FBI Disclosure of Tor Browser Zero-dayFive-year-old SAP Vulnerability Haunts Global BusinessesAdobe Flash Zero-Day Under Attack 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
China-Linked Spies Used New Malware in U.K. Government Attack A known cyber espionage group believed to be operating out of China was last year spotted using new malware in an attack aimed at an organization that provides services to the U.K. government. Details about the attack were presented last week at Kaspersky’s Security Analyst Summit (SAS) in Cancun by Ahmed Zaki, senior malware researcher at NCC Group. The attack has been attributed to a threat actor known as APT15, Ke3chang, Mirage, Vixen Panda and Playful Dragon. NCC Group started analyzing the group’s recent activities after it targeted one of its customers, a global company that provides a wide range of services to the United Kingdom government. Researchers believe the attackers had been targeting various U.K. government departments and military technology through its customer. NCC has not made any statements regarding attribution, but Zaki did mention during his presentation at SAS that APT15 was particularly active during hours that correspond to working hours in East Asia. APT15 has been active since at least 2010 and it has targeted organizations all around the world using its own malware and Word, Adobe Reader and Java exploits. The group has improved its tools and techniques over the years, and NCC recently spotted two new backdoors it created. One of the backdoors has been dubbed RoyalCLI and is considered a successor of BS2005, a piece of malware that is often used by the group. RoyalCLI leverages similar encryption and encoding routines, and they both communicate with command and control (C&C) servers via Internet Explorer using the IWebBrowser2 interface. The malware uses the Windows command prompt (cmd.exe) to execute a majority of its commands. It’s designed to copy the cmd.exe file and modify it, which allows it to bypass policies that might prevent the command prompt from running on the targeted device. The second backdoor, named RoyalDNS, uses DNS, specifically TXT records, to communicate with the C&C server. This piece of malware receives commands, executes them, and returns output through DNS. In the case of the attack analyzed by NCC, the hackers compromised more than 30 hosts, with forensic artifacts showing that the initial intrusion may have occurred as early as May 2016. NCC was asked by the client to stop its investigation in June 2017, but resumed it in August after the threat actor managed to regain access to the victim’s network. Experts determined that the hackers had stolen a VPN certificate from a compromised host and used it to regain access via the corporate VPN. The commands sent by the attackers to the RoyalCLI and BS2005 malware were cached to the disk of compromised devices, allowing researchers to recover over 200 commands. Since one of the commands contained a typo, investigators determined that they were likely sent by a human operative rather than an automated process. In addition to BS2005, RoyalCLI and RoyalDNS, APT15 used custom-built keyloggers, and Microsoft SharePoint and Exchange enumeration and data dumping tools. The group’s arsenal also includes widely available tools such as Mimikatz, CSVDE, NetEnum, and RemoteExec. Moreover, the attackers relied on various Windows commands to conduct reconnaissance, including tasklist, ping, netstat, net, systeminfo, ipconfig and bcp. For lateral movement they leveraged the net command and manually copied files to and from compromised hosts. “Through our investigation we were able to identify and monitor the attack process from start to finish, offering us unique insight into the behaviour of this group,” Zaki said. “It’s clear to see that this is a highly sophisticated threat actor that has no problem writing tools which are specific to its victims.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Incident Response Virus & Malware Malware
CVE-2015-2545 is a vulnerability discovered in 2015 and corrected with Microsoft’s update MS15-099. The vulnerability affects Microsoft Office versions 2007 SP3, 2010 SP2, 2013 SP1 and 2013 RT SP1. The error enables an attacker to execute arbitrary code using a specially crafted EPS image file. The exploit uses PostScript and can evade Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) and Data Execution Prevention (DEP) protection methods. The exploit was discovered in the wild in August 2015, when it was used in a targeted attack by the Platinum group , presumably against targets in India. Over the following months, there was significant growth in the number of threat actors using the vulnerability as a primary tool for initial penetration, with both the attack groups and their targets located in South-East and Central Asia and the Far East. In this research paper, we discuss examples of attacks using the CVE-2015-2545 vulnerability undertaken by some of these groups. Overview of groups using CVE-2015-2545 Platinum (also known as TwoForOne) The group is believe to originate from South-East Asia. Its attacks can be traced as far back as 2009. The group is notable for exploiting 0-day vulnerabilities and carrying out a small number of highly focused targeted attacks – mostly against government agencies in Malaysia, Indonesia, China and India. This group was the first to exploit the CVE-2015-2545 vulnerability. After the vulnerability was corrected with Microsoft updates in September and November 2015, no new Platinum attacks exploiting this vulnerability have been detected. Microsoft presented the activity of this group at the SAS conference in February 2016, and in its paper: PLATINUM: Targeted attacks in South and Southeast Asia . APT16 The group has been known for several years and is believed to be of Chinese origin. In November and December 2015, it used a modified exploit for CVE-2015-2545 in attacks against information and news agencies in Taiwan. These attacks were described in a FireEye research paper – The EPS Awakens – Part 2 . EvilPost In December 2015, Kaspersky Lab became aware of a targeted attack against the Japanese defense sector. In order to infect victims, the attacker sent an email with an attached DOCX file exploiting the CVE-2015-2545 vulnerability in Microsoft Office using an embedded EPS (Encapsulated Postscript) object. The EPS object contained a shellcode that dropped and loaded a 32-bit or 64-bit DLL file depending on the system architecture. This, in turn exploited another vulnerability to elevate privileges to Local System (CVE-2015-1701) and download additional malware components from the C&C server. The C&C server used in the attack was located in Japan and appears to have been compromised. However, there is no indication that it has ever been used for any other malicious purpose. Monitoring of the server activity for a period of several months did not result in any new findings. We believe the attackers either lost access to the server or realized that it resulted in too much attention from security researchers, as the attack was widely discussed by the Japanese security community. According to our research partner in Japan, the original EvilPost attack in December 2015 arrived as a spear-phishing email with a Word document attached. This document embedded an EPS object file, which triggered a vulnerability in the EPS format handler in Microsoft Word. Even with an exploit component, Microsoft Word rendered the document correctly and displayed the decoy message. The document is written in good Japanese, as shown below. It has been used to decoy New Year impressions of defense-related organizations. This attack was also described in the FireEye report , mentioned above. An overview of the activity of the EvilPost group activity was provided to subscribers of the Kaspersky Lab Threat Intelligence Service in March 2016. For information about the service, please write to intelreports@kaspersky.com . SPIVY In March and April 2016, a series of emails laced with an exploit forCVE-2015-2545 were detected. The emails were sent in spear-phishing attacks, presumably targeting organizations in Hong Kong. Identifying a specific group behind these attacks is difficult because they used a new variant of a widely available backdoor known as PoisonIvy (from which the name of the group, SPIVY, is derived). A description of these incidents can be found in the PaloAlto blog . Danti and SVCMONDR These two groups have not yet been publicly described. An overview of their attacks and the tools used is provided in this report. Danti attacks Danti (Kaspersky Lab’s internal name) is an APT actor that has been active at least since 2015, predominantly targeting Indian government organizations. According to our telemetry, Danti has also been actively hitting targets in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Myanmar, Nepal and the Philippines
Microsoft Office Flaw Exploited by Several APT Actors An Office vulnerability patched by Microsoft last year has been exploited by several advanced persistent threat (APT) actors in operations aimed at organizations in Asia, Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team reported on Wednesday. The remote code execution flaw, tracked as CVE-2015-2545, had been exploited by an APT group dubbed Platinum and TwoForOne before Microsoft released a patch in September 2015 and a more comprehensive fix two months later. The actor, which has been known to target organizations in South and Southeast Asia, has been active since at least 2009. CVE-2015-2545 can be exploited for arbitrary code execution via specially crafted Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) image files inserted into Office documents. The exploit for this flaw can evade Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) and Data Execution Prevention (DEP) mitigations. According to Kaspersky Lab, Platinum was the first group to exploit the vulnerability to deliver malware, but the threat actor apparently stopped using it after Microsoft released patches. One of the first APT groups to start leveraging CVE-2015-2545 after it was fixed by Microsoft is EvilPost, a China-linked gang that used weaponized Word documents to attack a Japanese defense contractor in December 2015. At around the same time, a different Chinese attacker dubbed APT16 used an exploit for this Office vulnerability to target media and government agencies in Taiwan. Organizations in Taiwan were also targeted in December 2015 by a threat actor dubbed by Kaspersky “SVCMONDR.” The SVCMONDR attacks share similarities with operations carried out by a group called Danti. However, researchers have not been able to precisely determine if SVCMONDR and Danti are the same group or if they simply used the same malicious code. Danti is an actor that has been observed targeting entities in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Myanmar, Nepal and the Philippines. It’s believed to be a new group that is related to the NetTraveler and DragonOK cyberspies, whose activities were analyzed in 2013 and 2014. Danti used CVE-2015-2545 in February and March to launch attacks against Indian diplomatic organizations, including many embassies. The group’s activities were also analyzed recently by Palo Alto Networks, which found connections between the malware used in the attacks aimed at Indian embassies and malware used in 2013 in a campaign called Operation Ke3chang. Evidence suggests that the attackers are located in China. Palo Alto Networks recently also analyzed a campaign where an APT group leveraged the Office flaw to deliver a Poison Ivy variant named “SPIVY” to organizations in Hong Kong. According to Kaspersky, all of these groups have exploited CVE-2015-2545 to target entities in Asia — none of them have been observed attacking organizations in Western Europe or the United States. In addition to APT actors, traditional cybercriminals have also leveraged the Office exploit in mass spam campaigns. “Such attacks mostly target financial institutions in Asia. Specifically, attacks have been recorded in Vietnam, the Philippines and Malaysia. There are reasons to believe that Nigerian cybercriminals are behind these attacks. In some cases, the infrastructure used is the same as the one we saw when analyzing the Adwind Trojan,” researchers said in a blog post. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Year-Old Office Vulnerabilities Most Popular in Current Attacks Most attacks that are targeting vulnerabilities in Microsoft Office to compromise victims’ systems are currently leveraging two security issues that were discovered last year, SophosLabs researchers warn. Over the past several weeks, CVE-2015-1641 and CVE-2015-2545 have emerged as the most popular Office exploits out there, dethroning CVE-2012-0158, a four-year old vulnerability that experts suggested might be called “the bug that just won’t die.” Still leveraged in many attacks, the bug fuels only a small percentage of them now, although it was abused in approxiately half of incidents in Q4 2015. According to a new report from SophosLabs, CVE-2015-1641 now accounts for nearly 66% of attacks, although it has been on the charts for only several months, while CVE-2015-2545 fuels around 17% of attacks after recently entering the cybercrime stage and making a sudden impact. CVE-2012-0158 is now the third most popular Office exploit, leveraged in less than 12% of attacks. The switch to newer exploits isn’t surprising, because users gradually patch older security flaws and attacks are no longer as successful. What might be surprising is that cybercriminals stayed with CVE-2012-0158 for so long and that they suddenly moved to a new vulnerability. SophosLabs researchers, however, say that this makes perfect sense. Cybercriminals “rely on the availability of published exploit kits. As such, until these kits utilize the newer exploit code, the criminals typically do not incorporate them downstream.” Thus, the sudden shift in exploit usage is attributed to the most widely used AK-1 kit being upgraded to AK-2, which dropped the older flaw to the newer, more impactful CVE-2015-1641, and to Microsoft Word Intruder (MWI), another popular crimeware kit, also adding support for the newer vulnerability. Additionally, the cybercriminal groups that actively distributed FareIt and Zbot are believed to have switched from the DL-2 exploit kit to a solution using the CVE-2015-2545 exploit. The inclusion of CVE-2015-1641 in AK-2 happened a while ago, but its availability in MWI is something new, SophosLabs’ report suggests. The kit was recently updated with some other functionality as well, including decoy documents, which are displayed before triggering the exploit. The typical payloads in the malicious documents created with it include the Zeus and Fareit Trojans, NetWiredRC and Nanocore backdoors, PredatorPain keylogger and the LuminosityLink RAT, researchers say. The CVE-2015-2545 vulnerability started its lifecycle as many other Office exploits do: high-end APT groups were using it at the 0-day stage, before an official patch was released for it. This remote code execution flaw was abused by an APT group dubbed Platinum and TwoForOne before Microsoft released a patch in September 2015. However, other groups started using it after the patch, including EvilPost and APT16, as well as NetTraveler. According to Sophos, from a criminal’s point of view, CVE-2015-2545 and CVE-2015-1641 appear as good replacements for the CVE-2012-0158 exploit, especially since the latter is already included in MWI and AK-2 exploit kits. “We can expect that more cybercrime groups will discover this possibility, and we will see an increase in the use of the new Office exploits in the general user base,” SophosLabs’ Gabor Szappanos says. “The good news is that both vulnerabilities have long been fixed and patches are available. Time to install those Office security updates!” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Previous Columns by SecurityWeek News:Privacy PolicySecurityWeek's ICS Cyber Security Conference Returns to Singapore With Strong LineupRSA Webinar: 6 Keys to Successful Identity Assurance2017 ICS Cyber Security Conference Call for Speakers Open Through August 15RSA Webinar: Evolution from Two-Factor Authentication to Identity Assurance Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
APT17: Hiding in Plain Sight - FireEye and Microsoft Expose Obfuscation Tactic Threat actors have found a new way to dodge security professionals, using popular websites’ legitimate functionalities to hide their hacking operations. FireEye Threat Intelligence and Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center discovered a China-based threat group dubbed APT17 using Microsoft’s TechNet blog for its Command-and-Control (CnC) operation. Interestingly, APT17 chose not to compromise TechNet, but rather created profiles and posted in forums to post its encoded CnC. Doing so made it more difficult for network security professionals to determine the CnC’s true location, which allowed APT17 to conduct its activities for longer than it might have otherwise. This report details how we discovered the operation, what was done to shut it down, and how other threat groups have already adopted a “hide in plain sight” approach to hacking. Download the report to find out: Who APT17 is and who they’re targeting How they bypassed traditional methods to avoid detection How this new method of compromise differs from previous tactics What FireEye and Microsoft did to shut down APT17’s use of the Microsoft TechNet blog Download the report today.
Download the Kaspersky Security Bulletin: Threat Predictions for 2018 Introduction As hard as it is to believe, it’s once again time for our APT Predictions. Looking back at a year like 2017 brings the internal conflict of being a security researcher into full view: on the one hand, each new event is an exciting new research avenue for us, as what were once theoretical problems find palpable expression in reality. This allows us to understand the actual attack surface and attacker tactics and to further hone our hunting and detection to address new attacks. On the other hand, as people with a heightened concern for the security posture of users at large, each event is a bigger catastrophe. Rather than consider each new breach as yet another example of the same, we see the compounding cumulative insecurity facing users, e-commerce, financial, and governmental institutions alike. As we stated last year, rather than thinly-veiled vendor pitching, our predictions are an attempt to bring to bear our research throughout the year in the form of trends likely to peak in the coming year. Our record – did we get it right? As a snapshot scorecard of our performance last year, these are some of our 2017 predictions and some examples where relevant: Espionage and APTs: Passive implants showing almost no signs of infection come into fashion Yes – https://securelist.com/unraveling-the-lamberts-toolkit/77990/ Ephemeral infections / memory malware Yes – https://securelist.com/fileless-attacks-against-enterprise-networks/77403/ Espionage goes mobile Yes – https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2017/04/an-investigation-of-chrysaor-malware-on.html Financial Attacks: The future of financial attacks Yes – https://securelist.com/lazarus-under-the-hood/77908/ Ransomware: Dirty, lying ransomware Yes – https://securelist.com/schroedingers-petya/78870/ Industrial threats: The ICS Armageddon didn’t come yet (and we are happy to be wrong on that), however, we’ve seen ICS come under attack from Industoyer – https://www.welivesecurity.com/2017/06/12/industroyer-biggest-threat-industrial-control-systems-since-stuxnet/ IoT: A brick by any other name Yes! BrickerBot – https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/04/brickerbot-the-permanent-denial-of-service-botnet-is-back-with-a-vengeance/ Information Warfare: Yes, multiple examples – https://citizenlab.ca/2017/05/tainted-leaks-disinformation-phish/ What can we expect in 2018? More supply chain attacks. Kaspersky Lab’s Global Research and Analysis Team tracks over 100 APT (advanced persistent threat) groups and operations. Some of these are incredibly sophisticated and possess wide arsenals that include zero-day exploits, fileless attack tools, and combine traditional hacking attacks with handovers to more sophisticated teams that handle the exfiltration part. We have often seen cases in which advanced threat actors have attempted to breach a certain target over a long period of time and kept failing at it. This was either due to the fact that the target was using strong internet security suites, had educated their employees not to fall victim to social engineering, or consciously followed the Australian DSD TOP35 mitigation strategies for APT attacks. In general, an actor that is considered both advanced and persistent won’t give up that easily, they’ll continue poking the defenses until they find a way in. When everything else fails, they are likely to take a step back and re-evaluate the situation. During such a re-evaluation, threat actors can decide a supply chain attack can be more effective than trying to break into their target directly. Even a target whose networks employ the world’s best defenses is likely using software from a third-party. The third party might be an easier target and can be leveraged to attack the better protected original target enterprise. During 2017, we have seen several such cases, including but not limited to: Shadowpad CCleaner ExPetr / NotPetya These attacks can be extremely difficult to identify or mitigate. For instance, in the case of Shadowpad, the attackers succeeded in Trojanizing a number of packages from Netsarang that were widely used around world, in banks, large enterprises, and other industry verticals. The difference between the clean and Trojanized packages can be dauntingly difficult to notice –in many cases it’s the command and control (C&C) traffic that gives them away. For CCleaner, it was estimated that over 2 million computers received the infected update, making it one of the biggest attacks of 2017. Analysis of the malicious CCleaner code allowed us to correlate it with a couple of other backdoors that are known to have been used in the past by APT groups from the ‘Axiom umbrella’, such as APT17 also known as Aurora. This proves the now extended lengths to which APT groups are willing to go in order to accomplish their objectives. Our assessment is that the amount of supply chain attacks at the moment is probably much higher than we realize but these have yet to be noticed or exposed. During 2018, we expect to see more supply chain attacks, both from the point of discovery and as well as actual attacks. Trojanizing specialized software used in specific regions and verticals will become a move akin to waterholing strategically chosen sites in order to reach specific swaths of victims and will thus prove irresistible to certain types of attackers. More high-end mobile malware. In August 2016, CitizenLab and Lookout published their analysis of the discovery of a sophisticated mobile espionage platform named Pegasus. Pegasus, a so-called ‘lawful interception’ software suite, is sold to governments and other entities by an Israeli company called NSO Group. When combined with zero-days capable of remotely bypassing a modern mobile operating systems’ security defenses, such as iOS, this is a highly potent system against which there is little defense. In April 2017, Google published its analysis of the Android version of the Pegasus spyware which it called Chrysaor . In addition to ‘lawful surveillance’ spyware such as Pegasus and Chrysaor, many other APT groups have developed their own mobile malware implants. Due to the fact that iOS is an operating system locked down from introspection, there is very little that a user can do to check if their phone is infected. Somehow, despite the greater state of vulnerability of Android, the situation is better on Android where products such as Kaspersky AntiVirus for Android are available to ascertain the integrity of a device. Our assessment is that the total number of mobile malware existing in the wild is likely higher than currently reported, due to shortcomings in telemetry that makes these more difficult to spot and eradicate. We estimate that in 2018 more high-end APT malware for mobile will be discovered, as a result of both an increase in the attacks and improvement in security technologies designed to catch them. More BeEF-like compromises with web profiling. Due to a combination of increased interest and better security and mitigation technologies being deployed by default in operating systems, the prices of zero-day exploits have skyrocketed through 2016 and 2017. For instance, the latest Zerodium payout chart lists up to $1,500,000 for a complete iPhone (iOS) Remote jailbreak with persistence attack, which is another way of saying ‘a remote infection without any interaction from the user’. The incredible prices that some government customers have most certainly chosen to pay for these exploits mean there is increasing attention paid towards protecting these exploits from accidental disclosure. This translates into the implementation of a more solid reconnaissance phase before delivering the actual attack components. The reconnaissance phase can, for instance emphasize the identification of the exact versions of the browser used by the target, their operating system, plugins and other third-party software. Armed with this knowledge, the threat actor can fine tune their exploit delivery to a less sensitive ‘1-day’ or ‘N-day’ exploit, instead of using the crown jewels . These profiling techniques have been fairly consistent with APT groups like Turla and Sofacy , as well as Newsbeef (a.k.a. Newscaster, Ajax hacking team, or ‘Charming Kitten’), but also other APT groups known for their custom profiling frameworks, such as the prolific Scanbox. Taking the prevalence of these frameworks into account in combination with a surging need to protect expensive tools, we estimate the usage of profiling toolkits such as ‘BeEF ‘ will increase in 2018 with more groups adopting either public frameworks or developing their own. Sophisticated UEFI and BIOS attacks. The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) is a software interface which serves as the intermediary between the firmware and the operating system on modern PCs. Established in 2005 by an alliance of leading software and hardware developers, Intel most notable amongst them, it’s now quickly superseding the legacy BIOS standard. This was achieved thanks to a number of advanced features that BIOS lacks: for example, the ability to install and run executables, networking and Internet capabilities, cryptography, CPU-independent architecture and drivers, etc. The very advanced capabilities that make UEFI such an attractive platform also open the way to new vulnerabilities that didn’t exist in the age of the more rigid BIOS. For example, the ability to run custom executable modules makes it possible to create malware that would be launched by UEFI directly before any anti-malware solution – or, indeed, the OS itself – had a chance to start. The fact that commercial-grade UEFI malware exists has been known since 2015, when the Hacking team UEFI modules were discovered. With that in mind, it is perhaps surprising that no significant UEFI malware has been found, a fact that we attribute to the difficulty in detecting these in a reliable way. We estimate that in 2018 we will see the discovery of more UEFI-based malware. Destructive attacks continue. Beginning in November 2016, Kaspersky Lab observed a new wave of wiper attacks directed at multiple targets in the Middle East. The malware used in the new attacks was a variant of the infamous Shamoon worm that targeted Saudi Aramco and Rasgas back in 2012. Dormant for four years, one of the most mysterious wipers in history has returned. Also known as Disttrack, Shamoon is a highly destructive malware family that effectively wipes the victim machine. A group known as the ‘Cutting Sword of Justice’ took credit for the Saudi Aramco attack by posting a Pastebin message on the day of the attack (back in 2012), and justified the attack as a measure against the Saudi monarchy. The Shamoon 2.0 attacks seen in November 2016 targeted organizations in various critical and economic sectors in Saudi Arabia. Just like the previous variant, the Shamoon 2.0 wiper aims for the mass destruction of systems inside compromised organizations. While investigating the Shamoon 2.0 attacks, Kaspersky Lab also discovered a previously unknown wiper malware that appears to be targeting organizations in Saudi Arabia. We’ve called this new wiper StoneDrill and have been able to link it with a high degree of confidence to the Newsbeef APT group. In addition to Shamoon and Stonedrill, 2017 has been a tough year in terms of destructive attacks. The ExPetr/NotPetya attack, which was initially considered to be ransomware , turned out to be a cleverly camouflaged wiper as well. ExPetr was followed by other waves of ‘ransomware’ attacks, in which there is little chance for the victims to recover their data; all cleverly masked ‘wipers as ransomware’. One of the lesser known facts about ‘wipers as ransomware’ is perhaps that a wave of such attacks was observed in 2016 from the CloudAtlas APT, which leveraged what appeared to be ‘wipers as ransomware’ against financial institutions in Russia. In 2018, we estimate that destructive attacks will continue to rise, leveraging its status as the most visible type of cyberwarfare. More subversion of cryptography. In March 2017, IoT encryption scheme proposals developed by the NSA came into question with Simon and Speck variant ISO approvals being both withdrawn and delayed a second time . In August 2016, Juniper Networks announced the discovery of two mysterious backdoors in their NetScreen firewalls. Perhaps the most interesting of the two was an extremely subtle change of the constants used for the Dual_EC random number generator, which would allow a knowledgeable attacker to decrypt VPN traffic from NetScreen devices. The original Dual_EC algorithm was designed by the NSA and pushed through NIST. Back in 2013, a Reuters report suggested that NSA paid RSA $10 million to put the vulnerable algorithm in their products as a means of subverting encryption. Even if the theoretical possibility of a backdoor was identified as early as 2007, several companies (including Juniper) continued to use it with a different set of constants, which would make it theoretically secure. It appears that this different set of constants made some APT actor unhappy enough to merit hacking into Juniper and changing the constants to a set that they could control and leverage to decrypt VPN connections. These attempts haven’t gone unnoticed. In September 2017, an international group of cryptography experts have forced the NSA to back down on two new encryption algorithms, which the organization was hoping to standardize. In October 2017, news broke about a flaw in a cryptographic library used by Infineon in their hardware chips for generation of RSA primes. While the flaw appears to have been unintentional, it does leave the question open in regards to how secure are the underlying encryption technologies used in our everyday life, from smart cards, wireless networks or encrypted web traffic. In 2018, we predict that more severe cryptographic vulnerabilities will be found and (hopefully) patched, be they in the standards themselves or the specific implementations. Identity in e-commerce comes into crisis. The past few years have been punctuated by increasingly catastrophic large-scale breaches of personally identifiable information (PII). Latest among these is the Equifax breach reportedly affecting 145.5 million Americans. While many have grown desensitized to the weight of these breaches, it’s important to understand that the release of PII at scale endangers a fundamental pillar of e-commerce and the bureaucratic convenience of adopting the Internet for important paperwork. Sure, fraud and identity theft have been problems for a long time, but what happens when the fundamental identifying information is so widely proliferated that it’s simply not reliable at all? Commerce and governmental institutions (particularly in the United States) will be faced with a choice between scaling back the modern comforts of adopting the Internet for operations or doubling down on the adoption of other multi-factor solutions. Perhaps thus far resilient alternatives like ApplePay will come into vogue as de facto means of insuring identity and transactions, but in the meantime we may see a slowdown in the critical role of the Internet for modernizing tedious bureaucratic processes and cutting operational costs. More router and modem hacks. Another known area of vulnerability that has gone vastly ignored is that of routers and modems. Be they home or enterprise, these pieces of hardware are everywhere, they’re critically important to daily operations, and tend to run proprietary pieces of software that go unpatched and unwatched. At the end of the day, these little computers are Internet-facing by design and thereby sitting at a critical juncture for an attacker intent on gaining persistent and stealthy access to a network. Moreover, as some very cool recent research has shown , in some cases attackers might even be able to impersonate different Internet users, making it possible to throw off the trail of an attacker entirely to a different connecting address. At a time of increased interest in misdirection and false flags, this is no small feat. Greater scrutiny of these devices will inevitably yield some interestin findings. A medium for social chaos. Beyond the leaks and political drama of the past year’s newfound love for information warfare, social media itself has taken a politicized role beyond our wildest dreams. Whether it’s at the hand of political pundits or confusing comedic jabs at Facebook’s CEO by South Park’s writers, eyes have turned against the different social media giants demanding some level of fact-checking and identification of fake users and bots attempting to exert disproportionate levels of social influence. Sadly, it’s becoming obvious that these networks (which base their success on quantified metrics like ‘daily active users’) have little incentive to truly purge their user base of bots. Even when these bots are serving an obvious agenda or can be tracked and traced by independent researchers. We expect that as the obvious abuse continues and large bot networks become accessible to wider swaths of politically unsavory characters, that the greater backlash will be directed at the use of social media itself, with disgusted users eagerly looking for alternatives to the household giants that revel in the benefits of the abuse for profits and clicks. APT predictions – conclusion In 2017 we pronounced the death of Indicators of Compromise . In 2018, we expect to see advanced threat actors playing to their new strengths, honing their new tools and the terrifying angles described above. Each year’s themes and trends shouldn’t be taken in isolation – they build on each other to enrich an ever-growing landscape of threats facing users of all types, be it individuals, enterprise, or government. The only consistent reprieve from this onslaught is the sharing and knowledgeable application of high-fidelity threat intelligence. While these predictions cover trends for advanced targeted threats, individual industry sectors will face their own distinct challenges. In 2018, we wanted to shine the spotlight on some of those as well – and have prepared predictions for the connected healthcare, automotive, financial services, and industrial security sectors, as well as cryptocurrencies. You can find them all here! Threat Predictions for Automotive in 2018 Threat Predictions for Connected Health in 2018 Threat Predictions for Financial Services and Fraud in 2018 Threat Predictions for Industrial Security in 2018 Threat Predictions for Cryptocurrencies in 2018 Threat Predictions for Connected Life in 2018
Chinese Threat Group Uses Microsoft's TechNet Portal to Host C&C IPs The Chinese threat actor known as APT17 and DeputyDog has been using profile pages and forum threads on Microsoft’s TechNet web portal to host IP addresses for command and control (C&C) servers. Researchers at FireEye Threat Intelligence and the Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center have prepared a brief report on the advanced persistent threat (APT) actor’s C&C obfuscation techniques. Experts have determined that the attackers haven’t actually compromised Microsoft’s website. Instead, they are using the portal’s legitimate functionality to host encoded strings that hide C&C IP addresses. APT17 is a Chinese threat group that has been targeting United States government organizations, the military, law firms, defense contractors, IT firms, mining companies, and NGOs. One of the tools leveraged by the group is BLACKCOFFEE, a backdoor that can be used to upload and download files, create a reverse shell on the infected system, enumerate files and processes, manipulate files, and terminate processes. The malware, which has been used by APT17 since at least 2013, now gets the IP address of the C&C server it’s supposed to communicate with from an encoded string embedded on the TechNet portal. The new version of BLACKCOFFEE contains URLs that point to TechNet forum threads or biography sections in profiles created by the attacker. The encoded string that hides the IP address in plain sight is found in profiles and posts between the “@MICROSOFT” and “CORPORATION” tags. In one example mentioned in the report from FireEye and Microsoft, the encoded IP address was published by the attackers in a forum post that appeared to contain useful information for solving a user’s problem. Once the IP for the C&C is obtained, the malware starts communicating with the server. BLACKCOFFEE uses the C&C server to receive commands and to send information stolen from the infected device back to the malicious actors. “If the C2 server is discovered or shut down, the threat actors can update the encoded IP address on TechNet to maintain control of the victims’ machines,” the companies explained in the report. Experts have pointed out that the use of a legitimate service, dubbed by some a “dead drop resolver,” and the embedding of an encoded IP address benefits the attackers because it delays detection, and can prevent the discovery of the C&C server’s IP address. FireEye believes other threat groups are already using, or will use, variations of this technique in their operations. “After discovering the BLACKCOFFEE activity, the FireEye-Microsoft team encoded a sinkhole IP address into the profile pages and forum threads and locked the accounts to prevent the threat actors from making any changes,” the report noted. “This collaborative approach allowed the team to observe the malware and its victims. With this information, Microsoft and FireEye can work with the anti-virus community to generate signatures to identify and clean systems affected by the malware and alert other forum and message board managers to be on the lookout for this technique.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Malware
Researchers Link CCleaner Attack to State-sponsored Chinese Hackers The sophisticated supply chain attack that resulted in millions of users downloading a backdoored version of the popular CCleaner PC software utility was the work of state-sponsored Chinese hackers, according to a new report. The attack started with the compromise of a CCleaner server in early July, which allowed hackers to inject backdoor code in two versions of the tool, namely 32-bit CCleaner v5.33.6162 and CCleaner Cloud v1.07.3191. Between August 15 and September 12, over 2.27 million users downloaded the infected binaries. Investigation into the attack revealed that the backdoored code was only the first stage of the intended user compromise, and that a second-stage payload had been delivered to a small number of selected targets. After finding the backup of a deleted database containing information on the infected machines, investigators discovered that a total of 1,646,536 unique machines (based on MAC addresses) reported to the command and control (C&C) server. The stage 2 payload, however, was served to only 40 of them. Soon after the investigation started, the security researchers looking into the incident discovered some connections to a known group of Chinese hackers, but no definite attribution was made. Now, Intezer researchers suggest that the attack was state-sponsored and that it can indeed be attributed to Chinese hackers that are part of the Axiom group. Also referred to as APT17 or DeputyDog, the group was previously associated with Operation Aurora, which started in 2009 and targeted companies such as Google, Adobe Systems, Juniper Networks, Rackspace, Yahoo, Symantec, Northrop Grumman, and Dow Chemical. The group specializes in supply chain attacks and Operation Aurora is considered one of the most sophisticated incidents ever. According to Intezer, an analysis of the stage 2 payload used in the CCleaner attack provided a clear link to the Chinese hackers after the first payload (the backdoor in the installer) revealed shared code with Axiom group. While looking at the backdoor, the researchers discovered unique code implementation “only previously seen in APT17 and not in any public repository.” Now, they reveal that the stage 2 payload contains code that is an exact match to APT17 malware seen before. “The author probably copied and pasted the code, which is what often happens to avoid duplicative efforts: rewriting the same code for the same functionality twice. Due to the uniqueness of the shared code, we strongly concluded that the code was written by the same attacker,” Intezer’s Jay Rosenberg notes. Analysis of the stage 2 payload revealed that one of the dropped modules is another backdoor designed to connect to a few domains. It would also connect to an IP to grab the next stage payload, which the researchers haven’t been able to identify until now. “The complexity and quality of this particular attack has led our team to conclude that it was most likely state-sponsored. Considering this new evidence, the malware can be attributed to the Axiom group due to both the nature of the attack itself and the specific code reuse throughout that our technology was able to uncover,” Rosenberg concludes. Related: Backup Database Reveals Scale of CCleaner Hack Related: Attack on Software Firm Was Sophisticated, Highly Targeted (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
CCleaner Incident Investigation Reveals Possible Stage 3 Payload CANCUN - KASPERSKY SECURITY ANALYST SUMMIT - The investigation into the September 2017 CCleaner incident has revealed what appears to be a stage three payload that attackers supposedly intended to deliver to infected users. The attack was disclosed on September 18, when security firm Avast revealed that 2.27 million users worldwide had downloaded an infected CCleaner installation file between August 15 and September 12. Hackers had added a backdoor to the 32-bit CCleaner v5.33.6162 and CCleaner Cloud v1.07.3191 releases, Avast revealed. What led to this was the compromise of the distribution servers of Piriform, the company developing CCleaner, in the months before Avast purchased the software firm. The code in the modified installers could collect non-sensitive information from the infected machines, and could also deliver a second stage binary. This revealed that the incident was in fact a highly targeted attack, as the second-stage payload was delivered to only 40 computers out of the millions that downloaded stage one. While no stage three binary was found on the affected systems, Avast now says that the attackers, the Chinese hacking group Axiom (also known as APT17 or DeputyDog), apparently had plans to deliver such malware as well. During its investigation of the Piriform infrastructure, the security firm discovered not only stage one and stage two binaries on the network, but also evidence of a third stage on four computers. Dubbed ShadowPad, this is a specialized tool that provides cybercriminals with remote control capabilities. In an August 2017 report, Kaspersky revealed that the ShadowPad backdoor was found in NetSarang’s products, which are used by hundreds of companies in the financial, software, media, energy, electronics, insurance, industrial, construction, manufacturing, retail, telecoms, pharmaceutical, and transportation sectors. “The tool was installed on the four Piriform computers on April 12th, 2017, while the preliminary version of the second stage had been installed on the computers March 12th, 2017,” Avast says. The command and control (C&C) server the older second stage variant was attempting to connect to was no longer up during the investigation and the researchers don’t know exactly what it was supposed to download. However, given the timeline of events, they assume that it “had downloaded and installed ShadowPad on the four Piriform computers.” The fact that ShadowPad is believed to have been developed by the Axiom group, the same actor behind the CCleaner attack, is also a strong indicator that this malware was intended to become the third stage payload, Avast says. The ShadowPad version used in the attack was custom-built, leading investigators to suspect it was explicitly created for Piriform. The security firm also discovered ShadowPad log files containing encrypted key strokes from a keylogger that became active on the infected machines on April 12, 2017. Other tools were also installed on the four computers, including a password stealer, along with tools that could install more software and plugins on the infected machines. “While ShadowPad was installed on the Piriform network itself and, as far as we can tell through our investigations today, not on any of the CCleaner customers’ computers, we believe that this tool was the intended third stage for the CCleaner customers,” Avast says. The second-stage malware deployed to only 40 computers of the millions that downloaded the infected CCleaner versions, but Avast couldn’t determine whether the third stage payload was meant for all of them or only a few, if any. Related: Researchers Link CCleaner Attack to State-sponsored Chinese Hackers Related: Backdoors Found in Tools Used by Hundreds of Organizations (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Incident Response Virus & Malware Malware Cybercrime
Researchers Link Several State-Sponsored Chinese Spy Groups Researchers have discovered links between several cyber espionage groups believed to be sponsored by the Chinese government and found that at least some of them may be working from the Xicheng District of Beijing. A report published last week by 401TRG, the threat research and analysis team at ProtectWise, revealed links between several campaigns conducted over the past decade. Researchers claim that various threat groups previously attributed to Chinese-speaking actors are all connected to China’s state intelligence apparatus under what they call the “Winnti umbrella.” Threat actors such as Winnti, Gref, PlayfullDragon, APT17, DeputyDog, Axiom, BARIUM, LEAD, PassCV, Wicked Panda, and ShadowPad are all believed to be part of the Winnti umbrella based on the use of similar tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs), and overlaps in infrastructure and operations. Experts believe they are “the work of individual teams, including contractors external to the Chinese government, with varying levels of expertise, cooperating on a specific agenda.” These hacker groups have been active since at least 2009 – possibly as early as 2007 – and their initial targets are often gaming studios and high-tech companies located in countries such as the United States, Japan, South Korea and China. The main goal appears to be harvesting code-signing certificates and manipulating software, with a secondary objective of financial gain. Researchers said the Winnti umbrella’s main targets appear to be political, such as Uyghur and Tibetan activists, Tibetan and Chinese journalists, the government of Thailand (e.g. Bookworm), and major international tech companies. These groups continue to launch campaigns, with operations seen as recently as late March. In the attacks observed this year, the hackers have focused on phishing – particularly targeted at Office 365 and Gmail accounts – rather than malware and exploits. The cyberspies often target cloud storage accounts from which they hope to obtain code-signing certificates. In some cases, they also seek files and documents that could help them escalate privileges and move laterally within the victim’s network. While the attackers have taken steps to hide their identity, they have made some mistakes, providing investigators important clues about their possible location. “In the attackers’ ideal situation, all remote access occurs through their own C2 infrastructure, which acts as a proxy and obscures their true location,” 401TRG said in its report. “However, we have observed a few cases of the attackers mistakenly accessing victim machines without a proxy, potentially identifying the true location of the individual running the session. In all of these cases, the net block was 221.216.0.0/13, the China Unicom Beijing Network, Xicheng District.” Related: 'Tick' Cyber Espionage Group Linked to China Related: China-Linked Spies Used New Malware in U.K. Government Attack Related: Chinese Cyberspies Deliver New Malware via CPL Files (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware
Cyber Espionage Targets Interests in South China Sea A cyber espionage campaign has been discovered apparently targeting participants in the recent Permanent Court of Arbitration case brought by the Philippines against China over Chinese claims of sovereignty in the South China Sea. The case was found against China last month. China itself did not accept the validity of the case, did not attend the arbitration, and has since rejected the ruling. The cyber espionage campaign was discovered by F-Secure. It named it NanHaiShu, and has today published an analysis of the methodology and malware involved. NanHaiShu (南海鼠) translates to "South China Sea Rat" in English. The malware was delivered by highly targeted emails in which individually crafted messages demonstrate that only specific organizations were targeted. These include the Philippines Court of Justice, the organizers of last November's APEC Summit held in the Philippines (during which it was expected that the South China Sea dispute would be discussed), and a major international law firm that represents one of the parties in the dispute. The malware delivered to the law firm was contained in an Excel macro. The message talks about "the range of salaries and/or bonuses", and the XLS attachment filename is 'Salary and Bonus Data.xls'. The combination of the email message and a VBA delivery mechanism suggests that considerable effort was put into researching the targets and socially engineering the attack. VBA simply will not work for targets with Excel's default settings, suggesting that the attackers were aware that their targets specifically allow macros within their day to day work. The malware itself is a remote access trojan (RAT) capable of downloading additional malware and exfiltrating files to the C&C server. F-Secure doesn't know what files might have stolen from the victims, so cannot absolutely confirm the arbitration case as the primary motive. The timeline of infections, targets and notable events around the arbitration does, however, provide compelling circumstantial evidence. The malware shows strong indications of Chinese origins, with code reused from Chinese forums. "The malware's VBA base64 decoder function seems to be popular among Chinese programmers," notes the report. "Searching for the variable names on the Internet leads to a handful of Chinese websites." But F-Secure does not attribute the attacks to the Chinese government, nor even to a specific Chinese malware group. F-Secure cyber security advisor Erka Koivunen told SecurityWeek that he cannot say for certain that the malware relates to any existing group (although some researchers are looking for similarities with the APT 17 group and the BLACKCOFFEE). He also said that attributing the attacks to the Chinese government would be a step too far; but he did say that he expects to see more of this group in the future. Despite F-Secure's refusal to describe this campaign as state-sponsored, there will undoubtedly be those who will make such an assumption. Since China was not present at an international arbitration case involving their own territorial claims means they would not have direct access to some of the information presented or discussed. Espionage would be one way to obtain this information. Under such an assumption, the NanHaiShu gang become the equivalent of LEA informants -- neither under the control of nor working to the instructions of the LEA, but nevertheless providing welcome information to that LEA. One thing is certain -- Chinese feelings in the South China Sea run deep. Soon after after the ruling it commenced a major wargames exercise with, according to ZeroHedge, "some 300 ships, dozens of fighter planes, and involved troops that are responsible for coastal defense radars, communications, and electronic warfare defense." In a separate publication, F-Secure provides information on how this and similar malware campaigns can be discovered and defeated. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
Chinese Cyberspies Target European Drone Maker, Energy Firm An advanced persistent threat (APT) actor believed to be based in China has been spotted targeting the systems of a European drone maker and a U.S. subsidiary of a French energy management company. Threat intelligence firm ThreatConnect has analyzed the attacks, but could not precisely determine which group is behind the campaign. The main suspects are Emissary Panda, also known as APT27 and TG-3390, and Dynamite Panda, also known as APT18, Wekby and TG-0416. It’s unclear if the hackers managed to steal any data from the targeted organizations. Analysis of the attacks started in June, when ThreatConnect came across a variant of the HttpBrowser backdoor, which has been leveraged by both Emissary Panda and Dynamite Panda. The domain used by the malware for command and control (C&C) communications is adobesys[dot]com. The email address that registered this domain at a Chinese domain reseller was previously used to register domains involved in the Anthem and OPM attacks, both of which have been attributed to China. Researchers pointed out that both Emissary Panda and Dynamite Panda have targeted the defense and aerospace industries, but only the former is known to attack organizations in the energy sector. In September 2015, U.S. President Barack Obama and his Chinese counterpart, President Xi Jinping, agreed not to conduct cyber espionage for economic gain. The agreement has had some impact, but espionage operations launched from China have not ceased. FireEye reported in June that Chinese spying had dropped in volume and became more focused. The subsidiary of the French energy management firm targeted in the attacks observed by ThreatConnect has been contracted by the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense. While targeting an energy company could constitute a violation of the September 2015 agreement, experts believe China could argue that this is in fact military espionage. In the case of the targeted drone manufacturer, that is more likely to be an economically motivated attack. Researchers pointed out that China’s DaJiang Innovation Technology (DJI) is one of the world’s largest drone makers and currently holds roughly 70 percent of the market share. Targeting a European competitor can help the company maintain its position as a leader in this sector. “While Chinese cyber-enabled economic espionage may be less pronounced, it almost certainly hasn’t ended and likely has evolved to help solidify leading market shares. In some ways, solidifying the dominant Chinese firm in a market feels like the next chapter in economic espionage. The overarching storyline of China’s economic espionage has been targeting strategic industries and allowing China to catch up with established champions,” ThreatConnect explained. “China may be attempting to avoid the ire of the U.S. government as it targets organizations that are headquartered elsewhere. Furthermore, China may also be attempting to be more efficient as it focuses collection on organizations that meet multiple intelligence requirements. Targeting such organizations could allow China to explain away their activity as non-economic espionage, thereby adhering (with their fingers crossed) to the Rose Garden agreement,” the company added. Related Reading: False Flags and Mis-Direction in Hacker Attribution Related Reading: "Wekby" Group Uses DNS Requests for C&C Communications Related Reading: China Cybergang Using Hacking Team Exploits Against Financial Firm (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Chinese APT Group Uses Hacking Team’s Flash Player Exploit The Adobe Flash Player exploit stolen by hackers from spyware maker Hacking Team has been leveraged by advanced persistent threat (APT) groups, according to security solutions provider Volexity. One of the groups observed leveraging CVE-2015-5119, which Adobe patched on Wednesday morning, is known as Wekby, APT 18, Dynamite Panda and TG-0416. The threat group, believed to have Chinese roots, is the main suspect in last year’s attack on Community Health Systems. Attackers stole 4.5 million patient records from the organization, reportedly by exploiting the OpenSSL vulnerability dubbed Heartbleed. According to Volexity, Wekby launched a spear phishing campaign involving emails titled “Important: Flash update” just as Adobe was getting ready to patch the Flash Player zero-day. The emails were sent out using a spoofed Adobe email address and they contained a link apparently pointing to the official Adobe download domain. Users who clicked on the link were taken to a website set up to serve a malicious SWF file designed to exploit the Flash Player vulnerability in order to deliver a piece of malware. The malware, in this case the Gh0st remote access Trojan (RAT), communicates with a Singapore IP address that has served as a command and control (C&C) server in many of Wekby’s attacks over the past years. Labels spotted by researchers in the malicious SWF file suggest that Hacking Team is the source of the exploit. Volexity says the Flash Player exploit has been leveraged in multiple APT and non-APT attacks. Hackers leaked a total of 400GB of data stolen from Hacking Team, including surveillance software, source code and exploits. The Flash Player exploit was integrated into exploit kits before Adobe managed to patch the vulnerability. Trend Micro reported that the Flash flaw was exploited before the Hacking Team breach came to light in attacks apparently aimed at users in Korea. As far as Wekby is concerned, Volexity is not the only security firm to analyze the group’s activities recently. ThreatStream issued a report on Monday detailing some of the evasive maneuvers used by the threat actor. Researchers discovered that the group has been using variants of the HTTPBrowser tool that uses DNS as a covert channel for communications. Experts also noticed that the APT actor has been trying to complicate the analysis of their malware by using return-oriented programming (ROP) to control execution flow. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Two New Flash Player Zero-Day Bugs Found in Hacking Team Leak Researchers have identified exploits for two new Adobe Flash Player zero-day vulnerabilities in the Hacking Team leak. Adobe has promised to patch the newly discovered bugs sometime this week. Last week, several security firms reported finding zero-day exploits for Flash Player (CVE-2015-5119) and Microsoft Windows vulnerabilities in the 400GB of data stolen by hackers from the systems of Italy-based spyware maker Hacking Team. Shortly after Adobe released an update to address the Flash Player bug, researchers reported finding two additional Flash exploits in the leaked data. One of the new Flash Player zero-days (CVE-2015-5122), involving the opaqueBackground property of the DisplayObject class in ActionScript 3, was reported to Adobe by FireEye. The security company noted that the proof-of-concept (PoC) code for this use-after-free (UAF) flaw was likely written by the author of the PoC for CVE-2015-5119. The second unpatched UAF vulnerability (CVE-2015-5123) is related to the ActionScript 3 BitmapData object. The issue was reported to Adobe by Trend Micro and the security researcher known online as “slipstream/RoL” (@TheWack0lian). Both of these vulnerabilities affect Flash Player 18.0.0.204 and earlier, and they allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to execute arbitrary code on affected systems. According to an advisory published by Adobe over the weekend, patches for these bugs will be made available in the week of July 12. The security researcher known as Kafeine reported that the Angler exploit kit has been leveraging CVE-2015-5122 since Saturday. Other exploit kits will likely follow soon. The first Flash Player vulnerability whose existence came to light following the Hacking Team breach was integrated into several exploit kits. The flaw was also leveraged by advanced persistent threat (APT) actors such as Wekby (APT 18) and UPS (APT3) in their operations. In a statement published last week, Hacking Team said it was concerned that the code published by hackers allows anyone to deploy the company’s surveillance software. “Before the attack, HackingTeam could control who had access to the technology which was sold exclusively to governments and government agencies. Now, because of the work of criminals, that ability to control who uses the technology has been lost. Terrorists, extortionists and others can deploy this technology at will if they have the technical ability to do so,” Hacking Team said. “We believe this is an extremely dangerous situation.” Despite numerous accusations that it sold its solutions to totalitarian governments, the Italian company has denied doing anything illegal. However, the data leaked as a result of the breach appears to show that the company was well aware that its products had been used in countries such as Sudan, Ethiopia and Saudi Arabia. Marietje Schaake, a Dutch member of the European Parliament, has asked the European Commission and Italian authorities to investigate Hacking Team’s activities. Related: Hacking Team’s Flash Player Zero-Day Spotted in Attacks Prior to Breach (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
"Wekby" Group Uses DNS Requests for C&C Communications Palo Alto Networks researchers noticed that a China-linked advanced persistent threat (APT) actor has been using a piece of malware that leverages DNS requests for command and control (C&C) communications. The group, known as Wekby, APT 18, Dynamite Panda and TG-0416, is believed to be responsible for the 2014 attack on Community Health Systems, one of the largest hospital operators in the United States. In that operation, the attackers reportedly stole 4.5 million patient records by exploiting the OpenSSL vulnerability dubbed Heartbleed. The group is known to quickly add new exploits to its arsenal. One example is a Flash Player exploit that the actor started using shortly after it was leaked last year from Italian spyware maker Hacking Team. In a more recent attack aimed at a US-based organization, Wekby leveraged a piece of malware dubbed by Palo Alto Networks “pisloader.” Based on metadata and the commands it uses, researchers believe pisloader is a variant of HTTPBrowser, a remote access Trojan (RAT) known to be used by Wekby and other APT actors. The attackers delivered the malware using an infrastructure that includes domains made to look like they belong to major organizations such as Logitech and Global Print. The hackers first deliver a dropper designed to add registry keys for persistence, and decrypt and execute a file that contains the pisloader payload. The payload is obfuscated using a ROP technique and contains random assembly instructions to make reverse engineering more difficult. Pisloader uses DNS requests for C&C communications, which allows it to bypass certain security products that don’t properly inspect this type of traffic. An increasing number of threats have been leveraging the technique, including point-of-sale (PoS) malware such as FrameworkPOS and Multigrain. In the case of pisloader, the malware periodically sends a DNS beacon request to its C&C server, whose location is hardcoded into the malware. The DNS responses must meet certain requirements, otherwise the malware will ignore them. The server responds with a TXT record that can contain various commands for the malware, including to collect system information, list file information for a specified directory, upload a file to the infected machine, and launch a command shell. The commands are similar to the ones used by HTTPBrowser, which, researchers said last year, was also using DNS as a covert communications channel. Related: Microsoft Office Flaw Exploited by Several APT Actors (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Chinese Cyberspies Target European Drone Maker, Energy Firm An advanced persistent threat (APT) actor believed to be based in China has been spotted targeting the systems of a European drone maker and a U.S. subsidiary of a French energy management company. Threat intelligence firm ThreatConnect has analyzed the attacks, but could not precisely determine which group is behind the campaign. The main suspects are Emissary Panda, also known as APT27 and TG-3390, and Dynamite Panda, also known as APT18, Wekby and TG-0416. It’s unclear if the hackers managed to steal any data from the targeted organizations. Analysis of the attacks started in June, when ThreatConnect came across a variant of the HttpBrowser backdoor, which has been leveraged by both Emissary Panda and Dynamite Panda. The domain used by the malware for command and control (C&C) communications is adobesys[dot]com. The email address that registered this domain at a Chinese domain reseller was previously used to register domains involved in the Anthem and OPM attacks, both of which have been attributed to China. Researchers pointed out that both Emissary Panda and Dynamite Panda have targeted the defense and aerospace industries, but only the former is known to attack organizations in the energy sector. In September 2015, U.S. President Barack Obama and his Chinese counterpart, President Xi Jinping, agreed not to conduct cyber espionage for economic gain. The agreement has had some impact, but espionage operations launched from China have not ceased. FireEye reported in June that Chinese spying had dropped in volume and became more focused. The subsidiary of the French energy management firm targeted in the attacks observed by ThreatConnect has been contracted by the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense. While targeting an energy company could constitute a violation of the September 2015 agreement, experts believe China could argue that this is in fact military espionage. In the case of the targeted drone manufacturer, that is more likely to be an economically motivated attack. Researchers pointed out that China’s DaJiang Innovation Technology (DJI) is one of the world’s largest drone makers and currently holds roughly 70 percent of the market share. Targeting a European competitor can help the company maintain its position as a leader in this sector. “While Chinese cyber-enabled economic espionage may be less pronounced, it almost certainly hasn’t ended and likely has evolved to help solidify leading market shares. In some ways, solidifying the dominant Chinese firm in a market feels like the next chapter in economic espionage. The overarching storyline of China’s economic espionage has been targeting strategic industries and allowing China to catch up with established champions,” ThreatConnect explained. “China may be attempting to avoid the ire of the U.S. government as it targets organizations that are headquartered elsewhere. Furthermore, China may also be attempting to be more efficient as it focuses collection on organizations that meet multiple intelligence requirements. Targeting such organizations could allow China to explain away their activity as non-economic espionage, thereby adhering (with their fingers crossed) to the Rose Garden agreement,” the company added. Related Reading: False Flags and Mis-Direction in Hacker Attribution Related Reading: "Wekby" Group Uses DNS Requests for C&C Communications Related Reading: China Cybergang Using Hacking Team Exploits Against Financial Firm (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Chinese Cyberspies Target National Data Center in Asia A China-linked cyber espionage group has targeted a national data center in Central Asia and experts believe the goal is to conduct watering hole attacks on the country’s government websites. The threat actor is tracked as LuckyMouse, Emissary Panda, APT27 and Threat Group 3390. The group has been active since at least 2010, targeting hundreds of organizations around the world, including U.S. defense contractors, financial services firms, a European drone maker, and the U.S.-based subsidiary of a French energy management company. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab recently identified a new attack carried out by this actor. The security firm spotted the campaign in March 2018, but believes it was launched in the fall of 2017. The attack targeted a national data center in an unnamed country in Central Asia. Researchers say the goal is likely to inject malicious JavaScript code into the government websites connected to the data center in order to conduct watering hole attacks. When accessed, the compromised government websites served either the Browser Exploitation Framework (BeEF), a penetration testing suite that focuses on the web browser, or the ScanBox reconnaissance framework. Kaspersky has not been able to determine how the national data center was breached, but believes the hackers may have used watering hole attacks aimed at the organization’s employees or through weaponized Office documents – the threat group has been spotted using CVE-2017-11882. The attack involved a piece of malware tracked by Kaspersky as HyperBro, a RAT that has been used by several Chinese-speaking threat actors. The samples analyzed by Kaspersky had timestamps ranging from December 2017 to January 2018, with evidence found by experts suggesting that the malware had made its way to the data center sometime in mid-November 2017. The main command and control (C&C) server used in this campaign is hosted on an IP address associated with a Ukrainian ISP. Specifically, the IP belongs to a MikroTik router running a firmware version released in March 2016. “A national data center is a valuable source of data that can also be abused to compromise official websites,” Kaspersky researchers said in a blog post. “Another interesting point is the Mikrotik router, which we believe was hacked specifically for the campaign. The reasons for this are not very clear: typically, Chinese-speaking actors don’t bother disguising their campaigns. Maybe these are the first steps in a new stealthier approach.” Related: China-Linked Spies Used New Malware in U.K. Government Attack Related: Researchers Link Several State-Sponsored Chinese Spy Groups (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
China-linked Hackers Use Signed Network Filtering Driver in Recent Attacks A cyber-espionage group believed to be operating out of China has been using a digitally signed network filtering driver as part of recent attacks, Kaspersky Lab reports. Tracked as LuckyMouse, Emissary Panda, APT27 and Threat Group 3390, the actor has been active since at least 2010, hitting hundreds of organizations worldwide (U.S. defense contractors, financial services firms, a European drone maker, and a national data center in Central Asia, among others). Over the past several months, the actor has been abusing the digitally signed 32- and 64-bit network filtering driver NDISProxy to inject a previously unknown Trojan into the lsass.exe system process memory. The most interesting aspect of the incidents, however, was that the driver was signed with a digital certificate belonging to Shenzhen, Guangdong-based information security software developer LeagSoft. The company was notified of the certificate abuse. Highly targeted at Middle Asian government entities, Kaspersky is confident that LuckyMouse is behind it. As part of the campaign, the actor used a dropper supposedly distributed through networks that were already compromised, and not through spear-phishing emails. The executable files can install both 32-bit and 64-bit drivers, depending on the target, and log all installation process steps. The installer sets an autorun Windows service running NDISProxy and achieves persistency, and also adds the encrypted in-memory Trojan to the system registry. The network filtering driver decrypts and injects the Trojan into memory and filters port 3389 (Remote Desktop Protocol, RDP) traffic to inject the command and control (C&C) communication into it. The final payload in the attack is a C++ Trojan that works as an HTTPS server and which waits passively for communications from the C&C. These three modules (installer, driver, and Trojan) allow attackers to silently move laterally across infected infrastructure. However, because no communication with the C&C is available if the infected host only has a LAN IP, the Earthworm SOCKS tunneler is used to connect the LAN of the infected host to the external C&C server. “They also used the Scanline network scanner to find file shares (port 135, Server Message Block, SMB) which they use to spread malware with administrative passwords, compromised with keyloggers,” Kaspersky reveals. The injected Trojan is a full-featured RAT that can execute common tasks onto the compromised machine, including running commands and downloading/uploading files. The malware is used for data harvesting, lateral movement, and for the creation of SOCKS tunnels to the C&C. The use of the publicly-available Earthworm tunneler is common to Chinese-speaking actors and one of the commands used by the attackers creates a tunnel to a previously known LuckyMouse server, which, paired with the choice of victims in this campaign, suggests that this actor is behind the attacks, Kaspersky says. “We have observed a gradual shift in several Chinese-speaking campaigns towards a combination of publicly available tools (such as Metasploit or CobaltStrike) and custom malware (like the C++ last stage RAT described in this report). We have also observed how different actors adopt code from GitHub repositories on a regular basis. All this combines to make attribution more difficult,” Kaspersky concludes. Related: Chinese Cyberspies Target National Data Center in Asia (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Network Security NEWS & INDUSTRY
The nation-state adversary group known as FANCY BEAR has been operating since at least 2008 and represents a constant threat to a wide variety of organizations around the globe. They target aerospace, defense, energy, government, media, and dissidents, using a sophisticated and cross-platform implant. FANCY BEAR’s code has been observed targeting conventional computers and mobile devices. To attack their victims, they typically employ both phishing messages and credential harvesting using spoofed websites. FANCY BEAR has demonstrated the ability to run multiple and extensive intrusion operations concurrently. In the blog post Bears in the Midst, CrowdStrike CTO Dmitri Alperovitch details the adversary’s operations against U.S. political organizations. At the same time that operation was occurring, this actor was involved in extensive operations targeting European military organizations. In his blog, Dmitri also notes that FANCY BEAR (also known as Sofacy or APT 28) is a Russian-based threat actor whose attacks have ranged far beyond the United States and Western Europe. The group has been observed targeting victims in multiple sectors across the globe. Because of its extensive operations against defense ministries and other military victims, FANCY BEAR’s profile closely mirrors the strategic interests of the Russian government, and may indicate affiliation with Главное Разведывательное Управление (Main Intelligence Department) or GRU, Russia’s premier military intelligence service. This adversary has dedicated considerable time to developing their primary implant known as XAgent, and to leverage proprietary tools and droppers such as X-Tunnel, WinIDS, Foozer and DownRange. Their main implant has been ported across multiple operating systems for conventional computers as well as mobile platforms. This group is also known for registering domains that closely resemble domains of legitimate organizations they plan to target in order to establish phishing sites that spoof the look and feel of the victim’s web-based email services, with the intention of harvesting their credentials. FANCY BEAR has also been linked publicly to intrusions into the German Bundestag and France’s TV5 Monde TV station in April 2015. To learn more about using threat intelligence to defend your enterprise, protect your endpoints and proactively hunt sophisticated threat actors, visit the CrowdStrike Falcon Intelligence page. To get full access to CrowdStrike’s next-gen antivirus solution for 15 days visit the Falcon Prevent free trial page. 
FireEye has moderate confidence that a campaign targeting the hospitality sector is attributed to Russian actor APT28 . We believe this activity, which dates back to at least July 2017, was intended to target travelers to hotels throughout Europe and the Middle East. The actor has used several notable techniques in these incidents such as sniffing passwords from Wi-Fi traffic, poisoning the NetBIOS Name Service, and spreading laterally via the EternalBlue exploit. APT28 Uses Malicious Document to Target Hospitality Industry FireEye has uncovered a malicious document sent in spear phishing emails to multiple companies in the hospitality industry, including hotels in at least seven European countries and one Middle Eastern country in early July. Successful execution of the macro within the malicious document results in the installation of APT28’s signature GAMEFISH malware. The malicious document – Hotel_Reservation_Form.doc (MD5: 9b10685b774a783eabfecdb6119a8aa3), as seen in Figure 1 – contains a macro that base64 decodes a dropper that then deploys APT28’s signature GAMEFISH malware (MD5: 1421419d1be31f1f9ea60e8ed87277db), which uses mvband.net and mvtband.net as command and control (C2) domains. Figure 1: Hotel_Reservation_Form.doc (MD5: 9b10685b774a783eabfecdb6119a8aa3) APT28 Uses Novel Techniques to Move Laterally and Potentially Target Travelers APT28 is using novel techniques involving the EternalBlue exploit and the open source tool Responder to spread laterally through networks and likely target travelers. Once inside the network of a hospitality company, APT28 sought out machines that controlled both guest and internal Wi-Fi networks. No guest credentials were observed being stolen at the compromised hotels; however, in a separate incident that occurred in Fall 2016, APT28 gained initial access to a victim’s network via credentials likely stolen from a hotel Wi-Fi network. Upon gaining access to the machines connected to corporate and guest Wi-Fi networks, APT28 deployed Responder. Responder facilitates NetBIOS Name Service (NBT-NS) poisoning. This technique listens for NBT-NS (UDP/137) broadcasts from victim computers attempting to connect to network resources. Once received, Responder masquerades as the sought-out resource and causes the victim computer to send the username and hashed password to the attacker-controlled machine. APT28 used this technique to steal usernames and hashed passwords that allowed escalation of privileges in the victim network. To spread through the hospitality company’s network, APT28 used a version of the EternalBlue SMB exploit. This was combined with the heavy use of py2exe to compile Python scripts. This is the first time we have seen APT28 incorporate this exploit into their intrusions. In the 2016 incident, the victim was compromised after connecting to a hotel Wi-Fi network. Twelve hours after the victim initially connected to the publicly available Wi-Fi network, APT28 logged into the machine with stolen credentials. These 12 hours could have been used to crack a hashed password offline. After successfully accessing the machine, the attacker deployed tools on the machine, spread laterally through the victim's network, and accessed the victim's OWA account. The login originated from a computer on the same subnet, indicating that the attacker machine was physically close to the victim and on the same Wi-Fi network. We cannot confirm how the initial credentials were stolen in the 2016 incident; however, later in the intrusion, Responder was deployed. Since this tool allows an attacker to sniff passwords from network traffic, it could have been used on the hotel Wi-Fi network to obtain a user’s credentials. Long-Standing Threats to Travelers Cyber espionage activity against the hospitality industry is typically focused on collecting information on or from hotel guests of interest rather than on the hotel industry itself, though actors may also collect information on the hotel as a means of facilitating operations. Business and government personnel who are traveling, especially in a foreign country, often rely on systems to conduct business other than those at their home office, and may be unfamiliar with threats posed while abroad. APT28 isn’t the only group targeting travelers. South Korea-nexus Fallout Team (aka Darkhotel) has used spoofed software updates on infected Wi-Fi networks in Asian hotels , and Duqu 2.0 malware has been found on the networks of European hotels used by participants in the Iranian nuclear negotiations. Additionally, open sources have reported for several years that in Russia and China, high-profile hotel guests may expect their hotel rooms to be accessed and their laptops and other electronic devices accessed . Outlook and Implications These incidents show a novel infection vector being used by APT28. The group is leveraging less secure hotel Wi-Fi networks to steal credentials and a NetBIOS Name Service poisoning utility to escalate privileges. APT28’s already wide-ranging capabilities and tactics are continuing to grow and refine as the group expands its infection vectors. Travelers must be aware of the threats posed when traveling – especially to foreign countries – and take extra precautions to secure their systems and data. Publicly accessible Wi-Fi networks present a significant threat and should be avoided whenever possible. Additional technical information and details are available to FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence customers through our portal.
On Jan. 6, 2017, the U.S. Director of National Intelligence released its Intelligence Community Assessment: Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections. Still, questions persist about Russian involvement. Did the Russian government direct the group responsible for the breaches and related data leaks? If so, is this simply a matter of accepted state espionage, or did it cross a line? Was the breach at the Democratic National Committee part of a concerted effort by the Russian government to interfere with the U.S. presidential election? The most consequential question remains unasked: How will Russia continue to employ a variety of methods – including hacks and leaks – to undermine the institutions, policies and actors that the Russian government perceives as constricting and condemning its forceful pursuit of its state aims? FireEye’s visibility into the operations of APT28 – a group we believe the Russian government sponsors – has given us insight into some of the government’s targets, as well as its objectives and the activities designed to further them. We have tracked and profiled this group through multiple investigations, endpoint and network detections, and continuous monitoring. Our visibility into APT28’s operations, which date to at least 2007, has allowed us to understand the group’s malware, operational changes and motivations. This intelligence has been critical to protecting and informing our clients, exposing this threat and strengthening our confidence in attributing APT28 to the Russian government. Our latest report, APT28: At the Center of the Storm , is available here . You can also register for our webinar on Feb. 21, 2017, at 8 a.m. PT/11 a.m. ET/4 p.m. GMT (UK), which will feature additional insights from Jonathan Wrolstad, Senior Threat Intelligence Analyst with FireEye, and Robert Morgus, Policy Analyst with New America’s Cybersecurity Initiative.
Complimentary Intel Report: Russia’s APT28 Strategically Evolves its Cyber Operations Concerns over Russian espionage litter today’s headlines as regional threat actors influence high-profile international matters, including the 2016 U.S. presidential election and more. The U.S. Federal government confirmed what FireEye long upheld – that the Russian actor group APT28 is indeed sponsored by the Russian government – and in response, recently released indicators of compromise (IoCs) to block their espionage activities. Learn more about this advanced persistent threat. Having tracked APT28 through multiple attacks and intrusions, FireEye has a unique understanding of the group’s motives and techniques, tactics and procedures (TTPs). Download this free 15-page intelligence report – At the Center of the Storm: Russia’s APT28 Strategically Evolves its Cyber Operations – for our unique insight into: APT28’s decade-long cyber support of Russian strategic interests. The techniques, tactics and procedures (TTPs) employed to compromise their victims. FireEye’s forensic and adversary intelligence gathered from previous APT28 breaches. APT28’s influence on numerous high-profile national and international matters, including the Syrian conflict, NATO-Ukraine relations and the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Gain valuable insight into who you’re blocking and why. Download our summarized intel on this high-profile Russian threat. Download this complimentary report today.
The role of nation-state actors in cyber attacks was perhaps most widely revealed in February 2013 when Mandiant released the APT1 report, which detailed a professional cyber espionage group based in China. Today we release a new report: APT28: A Window Into Russia’s Cyber Espionage Operations? This report focuses on a threat group that we have designated as APT28. While APT28’s malware is fairly well known in the cybersecurity community, our report details additional information exposing ongoing, focused operations that we believe indicate a government sponsor based in Moscow. In contrast with the China-based threat actors that FireEye tracks, APT28 does not appear to conduct widespread intellectual property theft for economic gain. Instead, APT28 focuses on collecting intelligence that would be most useful to a government. Specifically, FireEye found that since at least 2007, APT28 has been targeting privileged information related to governments, militaries and security organizations that would likely benefit the Russian government. In our report, we also describe several malware samples containing details that indicate that the developers are Russian language speakers operating during business hours that are consistent with the time zone of Russia’s major cities, including Moscow and St. Petersburg. FireEye analysts also found that APT28 has systematically evolved its malware since 2007, using flexible and lasting platforms indicative of plans for long-term use and sophisticated coding practices that suggest an interest in complicating reverse engineering efforts. We assess that APT28 is most likely sponsored by the Russian government based on numerous factors summarized below: FireEye is also releasing indicators to help organizations detect APT28 activity. Those indicators can be downloaded at https://github.com/fireeye/iocs . As with the APT1 report, we recognize that no single entity completely understands the entire complex picture of intense cyber espionage over many years. Our goal by releasing this report is to offer an assessment that informs and educates the community about attacks originating from Russia. The complete report can be downloaded here: /content/dam/legacy/resources/pdfs/apt28.pdf .
FireEye Labs recently detected a limited APT campaign exploiting zero-day vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash and a brand-new one in Microsoft Windows. Using the Dynamic Threat Intelligence Cloud (DTI), FireEye researchers detected a pattern of attacks beginning on April 13 th , 2015. Adobe independently patched the vulnerability (CVE-2015-3043) in APSB15-06 . Through correlation of technical indicators and command and control infrastructure, FireEye assess that APT28 is probably responsible for this activity. Microsoft is aware of the outstanding local privilege escalation vulnerability in Windows (CVE-2015-1701). While there is not yet a patch available for the Windows vulnerability, updating Adobe Flash to the latest version will render this in-the-wild exploit innocuous. We have only seen CVE-2015-1701 in use in conjunction with the Adobe Flash exploit for CVE-2015-3043. The Microsoft Security Team is working on a fix for CVE-2015-1701. Exploit Overview The high level flow of the exploit is as follows: 1. User clicks link to attacker controlled website 2. HTML/JS launcher page serves Flash exploit 3. Flash exploit triggers CVE-2015-3043, executes shellcode 4. Shellcode downloads and runs executable payload 5. Executable payload exploits local privilege escalation (CVE-2015-1701) to steal System token The Flash exploit is served from unobfuscated HTML/JS. The launcher page picks one of two Flash files to deliver depending upon the target’s platform (Windows 32 versus 64bits). The Flash exploit is mostly unobfuscated with only some light variable name mangling. The attackers relied heavily on the CVE-2014-0515 Metasploit module, which is well documented. It is ROPless, and instead constructs a fake vtable for a FileReference object that is modified for each call to a Windows API. The payload exploits a local privilege escalation vulnerability in the Windows kernel if it detects that it is running with limited privileges. It uses the vulnerability to run code from userspace in the context of the kernel, which modifies the attacker’s process token to have the same privileges as that of the System process. CVE-2015-3043 Exploit The primary difference between the CVE-2014-0515 metasploit module and this exploit is, obviously, the vulnerability. CVE-2014-0515 exploits a vulnerability in Flash’s Shader processing, whereas CVE-2015-3043 exploits a vulnerability in Flash’s FLV processing. The culprit FLV file is embedded within AS3 in two chunks, and is reassembled at runtime. Vulnerability A buffer overflow vulnerability exists in Adobe Flash Player (<=17.0.0.134) when parsing malformed FLV objects. Attackers exploiting the vulnerability can corrupt memory and gain remote code execution. In the exploit, the attacker embeds the FLV object directly in the ActionScript code, and plays the video using NetStream class. In memory, it looks like the following: 0000000: 46 4c 56 01 05 00 00 00 09 00 00 00 00 12 00 00 FLV............. 0000010: f4 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 02 00 0a 6f 6e 4d 65 74 ...........onMet 0000020: 61 44 61 74 61 08 00 00 00 0b 00 08 64 75 72 61 aData.......dura 0000030: 74 69 6f 6e 00 40 47 ca 3d 70 a3 d7 0a 00 05 77 tion.@G.=p.....w 0000040: 69 64 74 68 00 40 74 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 06 68 idth.@t........h 0000050: 65 69 67 68 74 00 40 6e 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 0d eight.@n........ 0000060: 76 69 64 65 6f 64 61 74 61 72 61 74 65 00 00 00 videodatarate... ….. 0003b20: 27 6e ee 72 87 1b 47 f7 41 a0 00 00 00 3a 1b 08 'n.r..G.A....:.. 0003b30: 00 04 41 00 00 0f 00 00 00 00 68 ee ee ee ee ee ..A.......h..... 0003b40: ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ................ 0003b50: ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ................ 0003b60: ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ................ Files of the FLV file format contain a sequence of Tag structures. In Flash, these objects are created when parsing FLV Tags: .text:1018ACE9 sub_1018ACE9 proc near ; CODE XREF: sub_1018BBAC+2Bp .text:1018ACE9 ; sub_10192797+1A1p ... .text:1018ACE9 .text:1018ACE9 arg_0 = dword ptr 4 .text:1018ACE9 .text:1018ACE9 mov eax, ecx .text:1018ACEB mov ecx, [esp+arg_0] .text:1018ACEF mov dword ptr [eax], offset off_10BA771C .text:1018ACF5 mov dword ptr [eax+24h], 1 .text:1018ACFC and dword ptr [eax+14h], 0 .text:1018AD00 mov [eax+28h], ecx .text:1018AD03 mov byte ptr [eax+20h], 0 .text:1018AD07 retn 4 .text:1018AD07 sub_1018ACE9 endp In the case of this exploit, a Tag structure begins at offset 0x3b2f into the FLV stream that, when parsed, populates the Tag structure as follows: Tag 2: UINT_8 type: 8 UINT_24 datasize: 1089 UINT_24 timestamp: 15 UINT_8 timestamphi: 0 UINT_24 streamid: 0 UINT_4 fmt: 6 UINT_2 sr: 2 UINT_1 bits: 0 UINT_1 channels: 0 UBYTE data[1088]: \xee\xee\xee\xee… UINT_32 lastsize: 0xeeeeeeee Beginning within the data field, all contents of the FLV stream become 0xEE. Consequently, the data and lastsize fields are mangled, and one final tag technically exists consisting exclusively of 0xEE: Tag 3: UINT_8 type: 0xEE UINT_24 datasize: 0xEEEEEE … One can see the datasize field of Tag2 populated from the attacker's FLV stream below: .text:10192943 mov eax, [ebx+24h] .text:10192946 mov [esi+14h], eax .text:10192949 movzx eax, byte ptr [ebx+19h] ; 00 .text:1019294D movzx ecx, byte ptr [ebx+1Ah] ; 04 .text:10192951 shl eax, 8 .text:10192954 or eax, ecx .text:10192956 movzx ecx, byte ptr [ebx+1Bh] ; 41 .text:1019295A shl eax, 8 .text:1019295D or eax, ecx .text:1019295F mov ecx, ebx .text:10192961 mov [esi+0Ch], eax ; 0x441 .text:10192964 call sub_1002E2B3 The buffer is allocated with fixed size 0x2000: .text:101A647E push 2000h .text:101A6483 mov ecx, esi .text:101A6485 call sub_101A6257 ; alloc 0x2000 buffer, store in esi+0xDC …… .text:101A627F push 0 .text:101A6281 push edi ; 0x2000 .text:101A6282 call sub_105EBEB0 .text:101A6287 pop ecx .text:101A6288 pop ecx .text:101A6289 mov [esi+0DCh], eax Since the size is controlled by the attacker, it’s possible to overflow the fixed size buffer with certain data. A datasize of 0x441 results in a value here of 0x1100 passed to sub_100F88F8, which memcopies 0x2200 bytes in 0x11 chunks of 0x200. The last memcpy overflows the fixed size 0x2000 buffer into a adjacent heap memory. Attackers spray the heap with array of Vector, 0x7fe * 4 + 8 == 0x2000, and create holes of such size, which will be allocated by the said object. while (_local_2 < this._bp35) // _bp35 == 0x2000 { this._ok47[_local_2] = new Vector.<uint>(this._lb60); // _lb60 == 0x07FE _local_3 = 0x00; while (_local_3 < this._lb60) { this._ok47[_local_2][_local_3] = 0x41414141; _local_3++; }; _local_2 = (_local_2 + 0x01); }; _local_2 = 0x00; while (_local_2 < this._bp35) { this._ok47[_local_2] = null; _local_2 = (_local_2 + 0x02); }; As the previous picture demonstrated, the followed Vector object’s length field being overflowed as 0x80007fff, which enables the attacker to read/write arbitrary data within user space. Shellcode Shellcode is passed to the exploit from HTML in flashvars. The shellcode downloads the next stage payload, which is an executable passed in plaintext, to the temp directory with UrlDownloadToFileA, which it then runs with WinExec. Payload & C2 This exploit delivers a malware variant that shares characteristics with the APT28 backdoors CHOPSTICK and CORESHELL malware families, both described in our APT28 whitepaper . The malware uses an RC4 encryption key that was previously used by the CHOPSTICK backdoor. And the C2 messages include a checksum algorithm that resembles those used in CHOPSTICK backdoor communications. In addition, the network beacon traffic for the new malware resembles those used by the CORESHELL backdoor. Like CORESHELL, one of the beacons includes a process listing from the victim host. And like CORESHELL, the new malware attempts to download a second-stage executable. One of the C2 locations for the new payload, 87.236.215[.]246 , also hosts a suspected APT28 domain ssl-icloud[.]com . The same subnet ( 87.236.215.0/24 ) also hosts several known or suspected APT28 domains, as seen in Table 1. The target firm is an international government entity in an industry vertical that aligns with known APT28 targeting. CVE-2015-1701 Exploit The payload contains an exploit for the unpatched local privilege escalation vulnerability CVE-2015-1701 in Microsoft Windows. The exploit uses CVE-2015-1701 to execute a callback in userspace. The callback gets the EPROCESS structures of the current process and the System process, and copies data from the System token into the token of the current process. Upon completion, the payload continues execution in usermode with the privileges of the System process. Because CVE-2015-3043 is already patched, this remote exploit will not succeed on a fully patched system. If an attacker wanted to exploit CVE-2015-1701, they would first have to be executing code on the victim’s machine. Barring authorized access to the victim’s machine, the attacker would have to find some other means, such as crafting a new Flash exploit, to deliver a CVE-2015-1701 payload. Microsoft is aware of CVE-2015-1701 and is working on a fix. CVE-2015-1701 does not affect Windows 8 and later. Acknowledgements Thank you to all of the contributors to this blog! The following people in FireEye: Dan Caselden, Yasir Khalid, James “Tom” Bennett, GenWei Jiang, Corbin Souffrant, Joshua Homan, Jonathan Wrolstad, Chris Phillips, Darien Kindlund Microsoft & Adobe security teams
Introduction On October 4, 2018, the MIVD held a press conference about an intercepted cyberattack on the OPWC in the Netherlands, allegedly by the advanced threat actor Sofacy (also known as APT28 or Fancy Bear, among others). According to the MIVD, four suspects were caught red handed trying to break into the OPWC’s network. Sofacy activity in the Netherlands did not come as a surprise to us, since we have seen signs of its presence in that country before. However, aside from Sofacy we haven’t seen many other advanced persistent threat (APT) groups in the Netherlands, at least when compared to other areas, such as the Middle-East. Upon further reflection, we have concluded that this is rather odd. There are quite a few big multinationals and some high tech companies located in the Netherlands. In addition, there are other potential strategic targets for threat actors. So we decided to review cyber-threat activity targeting or affecting the Netherlands. Providing an overview of one APT’s activity can be quite difficult, let alone all the APT activity affecting a country. First, we only see what we can see. That means we can only gather data from sources we have access to, such as that shared voluntarily by our customers with Kaspersky Security Network (KSN), and those sources also need to be supplied with data related to a specific APT. As a result, like any other cybersecurity vendor, our telemetry is naturally incomplete. One way to improve our overview is to use sinkhole data. When a domain that is used by an APT expires, researchers can register that domain and direct the traffic to a sinkhole server. This is done quite frequently. For many of the APTs we track, we sinkhole at least one domain. In comparison to other sources, such as KSN and multi-scanner services, sinkhole data has a number of advantages. For example, in some cases you can get a better overview of the victimology of the APT. The drawback is that we need to filter the results, since there can be quite a few false positives (e.g. because other researchers are investigating the malware). This filtering can be quite cumbersome, because if we base it solely on the IP and the requests, it is quite difficult to come to a verdict. Methodology For this blogpost we gathered all the sinkhole data for Dutch IPs in the last four years (September 2014 to September 2018), which amounts to around 85,000 entries. Of course, this is far too much to verify by hand, so the first step was to filter the results, and especially all the scanners. While some of these were relatively easy to spot and filter out (e.g. all the TOR exit nodes, all the Romanian. anti-sec ), others required a bit more effort. In order to filter out the scanners, we deleted all entries where the IP matched more than four “tags” (each tag stands for a different campaign). After doing this, we were left with around 11,000. That meant 77% fewer results, but there were still too many, so we applied some more aggressive filtering. The table below describes the number of tags that were hit per IP. 0 10,532 1 1,149 2 618 3 344 4 234 >4 938 One way to determine whether a hit in the sinkhole database is a true positive (TP) or a false positive (FP), is to find out who the victim is. We thus reversed the IP and checked whether, at the time of the first entry in our sinkhole database, the DNS entry matched the entries in our passive DNS database. If this was not the case, the entry was ignored. The next step was to remove all the entries that would be difficult to investigate (e.g. IP addresses that belong to an ADSL connection). Even though this method was quite rigid and meant that some TPs might be missed, we still decided to use it, since we knew it would be too resource-intensive to investigate all the entries. The result: only around 1,000 entries remained for investigation. The aim of this blogpost is to give an overview of which APT groups are active in the Netherlands and what they are interested in, and that requires TPs, not FPs. For each remaining entry, a reverse DNS lookup was made, and the ASN information was saved. This was checked against our passive DNS database to see whether this IP had the same domain as its first entry in the sinkhole database. If it did, the entry was kept, if it was not, we tried to find out to which organization the IP belonged. At this point, for the entries that remained, the raw requests were retrieved against the template request made by the APT. Finally, for each of the IPs left on our list, we tried to tie them to a company or institution. If this was the case, the entry was kept and marked as a TP. We also checked our APT reports for targets in the Netherlands and added these results to the review. Results Using the methods described above, we found the following APTs that are or have been active in the Netherlands: BlackOasis BlackOasis is an APT group we have been tracking since May 2016. It uses the commercially available FinFisher malware made by Gamma International and sold to law enforcement agencies (LEAs) and nation states. BlackOasis differentiates itself from other APT-groups by using a vast amount of 0-days: at least five since 2015. Victims are mostly found in Middle Eastern countries, where the group is particularly interested in politics. We have also seen it targeting members of the United Nations and regional news correspondents. Recently we have seen a shift in focus towards other countries such as Russia, the UK and now also the Netherlands. Its Dutch victims fit into its shift of interest. Sofacy Sofacy, also known as Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear and many other names is an active APT group that we have followed since 2011. It is known for using spear phishing emails to infect targets and for the active deployment of 0-days. In 2015, Trend Micro researchers reported that the group had targeted the MH17 investigation team. Last year, the Volkskrant published an article alleging it tried to infect several Dutch Ministries. Then there is the October 4, 2018 news of four alleged Sofacy members having been caught in April 2018 trying to hack the OPWC. Even though we cannot confirm these last two incidents, since we are not involved, we have observed several targets in the Netherlands infected with Sofacy. Interestingly, we observe fewer deployments of Xagent (one of Sofacy’s modules) after April 2018. Although one new Xagent deployment was noted in August 2018, it seems that the group pushed fewer, and then only new, deployments from April through June 2018. Hades Hades is the name given to the group held responsible for the Olympic Destroyer malware that was found targeting the 2018 Winter Olympic Games in South Korea. Our initial thought was that the malware was related to the Lazarus group, because several of our Yara rules had 100% matches with the malware. However, after careful research we found many false flags that pointed to different APT groups. A few months later, in May 2018 (not long after the OPWC incident took place), we found that Hades had returned and was now targeting financial institutions and chemical threat prevention laboratories. Given this shift of interest, it is no surprise that entities in the Netherlands were targeted as well. Buhtrap Buhtrap is one of the groups that targets financial institutions with the ultimate goal of stealing money. Its tools, techniques and processes (TTPs) don’t differ extensively from those of traditional APT groups. Buhtrap is one of those (Carbanak and Tyupkin are others) that started by infecting financial institutions in Russia and Ukraine, but after a while shifted its focus to other parts of the world. We found Buhtrap activity in the Netherlands in 2017. The Lamberts In March 2017, WikiLeaks published online a series of documents that they call “Vault 7”. Some of these documents feature malware that resembles that used by the Lamberts , a toolkit that has been used for several years, with most of its activity occurring in 2013 and 2014. One of The Lamberts’ variants we have been investigating is the “Green Lamberts”. We were surprised to see quite a few infections in the Netherlands, when the majority of attacks target Iran. We do not have any insight into the profile of the victims located in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, the fact that Lamberts is active in the Netherlands shows a possible shift in focus, and reminds us that for APT groups, borders do not exist. Turla Turla, also known as Uroboros, is a very active APT group, believed to be connected to many high-profile incidents such as the US Central Command attack in 2008 and the breach of RUAG (a Swiss military contractor). Other Turla targets include ministries and governmental organizations. Given all this, the Netherlands is a logical target for the Turla group. In fact, we would have been surprised not to have found any Turla infections in the Netherlands. Gatak Gatak, which also goes by the names of Stegoloader and GOLD, is a group that engages in data theft using watering hole attacks. It has been active since at least 2015, and its main interest is in intellectual property. Even though the use of watering hole attacks means the group does not have full control over who it infects, it has been able to hit a couple of high profile targets. In this case, our sinkhole database enabled us to determine that one of those was a high profile target in the Netherlands. Putter Panda In 2015, the Dutch chip maker, ASML was allegedly breached by Putter Panda . ASML acknowledged the breach and stated that one file was stolen. No further details are publicly available, although there was an episode of the TV program “KRO reporter “, partially dedicated to the breach. ASML is one of relatively few high-tech companies in the Netherlands. The fact that it has been breached is a clear sign that foreign threat actors are aware of and interested in industrial espionage in the Netherlands. Animal Farm Animal Farm is a group that has been active since at least 2009. A relatively advanced threat actor, it has been targeting a variety of organizations over the past years. Victims include governmental organizations, military contractors, activists and journalists. Even though the group is mainly focused on French speaking countries, we still found a few infections in the Netherlands. Conclusion Although our visibility of threat actor activity in the Netherlands is incomplete, the results are nevertheless surprising. Some groups we did not expect to see appear to be active in the country (such as the Lamberts). However, upon further thought, and especially when looking at potential targets located in the Netherlands and comparing this with the interests of some of the APT groups, their activity in the Netherlands makes sense. The presence of both expected and unexpected threat actors is a good argument for organizations staying informed of the latest developments in cyberspace, particularly through threat intelligence reports. Because if you know what APT groups are up to, which organisations they target and what TTPs they use, you can implement the protection you need to stay one step ahead of them. Such precautions are important, because one of the most stunning findings from the review of sinkhole databases was the number of organizations infected using “ordinary cybercrime malware”. We saw infections among airlines, airports and other major companies (although it should be noted that this happens in other countries as well, not just in the Netherlands). It demonstrates again that it is not so difficult for (APT) groups to breach valuable targets and that basic cyber hygiene is important for everybody. As a final note, one should always be careful about deriving hard conclusions from APT findings, particularly in terms of attribution. For example, even though we saw Olympic Destroyer malware being used to target chemical threat prevention laboratories shortly after the OPWC incident, this is not conclusive evidence that the groups behind these attacks are the same, or even related. However, using this fact to monitor your network for the presence of Olympic Destroyer malware if you think you might be a potential Sofacy target – and vice versa – seems like a good approach. For more information on our private threat intelligence reporting service, please contact intelreports@kaspersky.com
Targeted attacks and malware campaigns Operation Parliament In April, we reported the workings of Operation Parliament , a cyber-espionage campaign aimed at high-profile legislative, executive and judicial organizations around the world – with its main focus in the MENA (Middle East and North Africa) region, especially Palestine. The attacks, which started early in 2017, target parliaments, senates, top state offices and officials, political science scholars, military and intelligence agencies, ministries, media outlets, research centers, election commissions, Olympic organizations, large trading companies and others. The attackers have taken great care to stay under the radar, imitating another attack group in the region. The targeting of victims is unlike that of previous campaigns in the Middle East, by Gaza Cybergang or Desert Falcons, and points to an elaborate information-gathering exercise that was carried out prior to the attacks (physical and/or digital). The attackers have been particularly careful to verify victim devices before proceeding with the infection, safeguarding their C2 (Command-and-Control) servers. The attacks seem to have slowed down since the start of 2018, probably after the attackers achieved their objectives. The malware basically provides a remote CMD/PowerShell terminal for the attackers, enabling them to execute any scripts or commands and receive the result via HTTP requests. This campaign is a further symptom of escalating tensions in the Middle East. Energetic Bear Crouching Yeti (aka Energetic Bear) is an APT group that has been active since at least 2010, mainly targeting energy and industrial companies. The group targets organizations around the world, but with a particular focus on Europe, the US and Turkey – the latter being a new addition to the group’s interests during 2016-17. The group’s main tactics include sending phishing e-mails with malicious documents and infecting servers for different purposes, including hosting tools and logs and watering-hole attacks . Crouching Yeti’s activities against US targets have been publicly discussed by US-CERT and the UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC). In April, Kaspersky Lab ICS CERT provided information on identified servers infected and used by Crouching Yeti and presented the findings of an analysis of several web servers compromised by the group during 2016 and early 2017. Our findings are as follows. With rare exceptions, the group’s members get by with publicly available tools. The use of publicly available utilities by the group to conduct its attacks renders the task of attack attribution without any additional group ‘markers’ very difficult. Potentially, any vulnerable server on the internet is of interest to the attackers when they want to establish a foothold in order to develop further attacks against target facilities. In most cases that we have observed, the group performed tasks related to searching for vulnerabilities, gaining persistence on various hosts, and stealing authentication data. The diversity of victims may indicate the diversity of the attackers’ interests. It can be assumed with some degree of certainty that the group operates in the interests of or takes orders from customers that are external to it, performing initial data collection, the theft of authentication data and gaining persistence on resources that are suitable for the attack’s further development. You can read the full report here . ZooPark The use of mobile platforms for cyber-espionage has been growing in recent years – not surprising, given the widespread use of mobile devices by businesses and consumers alike. ZooPark is one such operation. The attackers have been focusing on targets in the Middle East since at least June 2015, using several generations of malware to target Android devices, which we have labelled versions one to four. Each version marks a progression – from very basic first and second versions, to the commercial spyware fork in the third version and then to the complex spyware that is the fourth version. The last step is especially interesting, showing a big leap from straightforward code functionality to highly sophisticated malware. This suggests that the latest version may have been bought from a vendor of specialist surveillance tools. This wouldn’t be surprising, since the market for these espionage tools is growing, becoming popular among governments, with several known cases in the Middle East. At this point, we cannot confirm attribution to any known threat actor. If you would like to learn more about our intelligence reports, or request more information on a specific report, contact us at intelreports@kaspersky.com. We have seen two main distribution vectors for ZooPark – Telegram channels and watering-holes. The second of these has been the preferred method: we found several news websites that have been hacked by the attackers to redirect visitors to a downloading site that serves malicious APKs. Some of the themes observed in the campaign include ‘Kurdistan referendum’, ‘TelegramGroups’ and ‘Alnaharegypt news’, among others. The target profile has evolved in the last few years of the campaign, focusing on victims in Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Lebanon and Iran. Some of the samples we have analyzed provide clues about the intended targets. For example, one sample mimics a voting application for the independence referendum in Kurdistan. Other possible high-profile targets include the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) for Palestine refugees in the Near East in Amman, Jordan. The king is dead, long live the king! On April 18, someone uploaded an interesting exploit to VirusTotal. This was detected by several security vendors, including Kaspersky Lab – using our generic heuristic logic for some older Microsoft Word documents. This turned out to be a new zero-day vulnerability for Internet Explorer (CVE-2018-8174) –patched by Microsoft on May 8, 2018. Following processing of the sample in our sandbox system , we noticed that it successfully exploited a fully patched version of Microsoft Word. This led us to carry out a deeper analysis of the vulnerability . The infection chain consists of the following steps. The victim receives a malicious Microsoft Word document. After opening it, the second stage of the exploit is downloaded – an HTML page containing VBScript code. This triggers a UAF ( Use After Free ) vulnerability and executes shellcode. Despite the initial attack vector being a Word document, the vulnerability is actually in VBScript. This is the first time we have seen a URL Moniker used to load an IE exploit in Word, but we believe that this technique will be heavily abused by attackers in the future, since it allows them to force victims to load IE, ignoring the default browser settings. It’s likely that exploit kit authors will start abusing it in both drive-by attacks (through the browser) and spear-phishing campaigns (through a document). To protect against this technique, we would recommend applying the latest security updates and using a security solution with behavior detection capabilities. VPNFilter In May, researchers from Cisco Talos published the results of their investigation into VPNFilter, malware used to infect different brands of routers – mainly in Ukraine, although affecting routers in 54 countries in total. Initially, they believed that the malware had infected around 500,000 routers – Linksys, MikroTik, Netgear and TP-Link networking equipment in the small office/home office (SOHO) sector, and QNAP network-attached storage (NAS) devices. However, it later became clear that the list of infected routers was much longer – 75 in total, including ASUS, D-Link, Huawei, Ubiquiti, UPVEL and ZTE. The malware is capable of bricking the infected device, executing shell commands for further manipulation, creating a TOR configuration for anonymous access to the device or configuring the router’s proxy port and proxy URL to manipulate browsing sessions. Further research by Cisco Talos showed that the malware is able to infect more than just targeted devices. It is also spread into networks supported by the device, thereby extending the scope of the attack. Researchers also identified a new stage-three module capable of injecting malicious code into web traffic. The C2 mechanism has several stages. First, the malware tries to visit a number of gallery pages hosted on ‘photobucket[.]com’ and fetches the image from the page. If this fails, the malware tries to fetch an image from the hard-coded domain ‘toknowall[.]com’ (this C2 domain is currently sink-holed by the FBI). If this fails also, the malware goes into passive backdoor mode, in which it processes network traffic on the infected device, waiting for the attacker’s commands. Researchers in the Global Research and Analysis Team (GReAT) at Kaspersky Lab analyzed the EXIF processing mechanism . One of the interesting questions is who is behind this malware. Cisco Talos indicated that a state-sponsored or state affiliated threat actor is responsible. In its affidavit for sink-holing the C2 , the FBI suggests that Sofacy (aka APT28, Pawn Storm, Sednit, STRONTIUM, and Tsar Team) is the culprit. There is some code overlap with the BlackEnergy malware used in previous attacks in Ukraine (the FBI’s affidavit makes it clear that they see BlackEnergy (aka Sandworm) as a sub-group of Sofacy). LuckyMouse In March 2018, we detected an ongoing campaign targeting a national data center in Central Asia . The choice of target of the campaign, which has been active since autumn 2017, is especially significant – it means that the attackers were able to gain access to a wide range of government resources in one fell swoop. We think they did this by inserting malicious scripts into the country’s official websites in order to conduct watering-hole attacks. We attribute this campaign to the Chinese-speaking threat actor LuckyMouse (aka EmissaryPanda and APT27) because of the tools and tactics used in the campaign, because the C2 domain, update.iaacstudio[.]com, was previously used by this group and because they have previously targeted government organizations, including those in Central Asia. The initial infection vector used in the attack against the data centre is unclear. Even where we observed LuckyMouse using weaponized documents with CVE-2017-118822 (Microsoft Office Equation Editor, widely used by Chinese-speaking actors since December 2017), we couldn’t prove that they were related to this particular attack. It’s possible that the attackers used a watering hole to infect data center employees. The attackers used the HyperBro Trojan as their last-stage, in-memory remote administration tool (RAT) and their anti-detection launcher and decompressor makes extensive use of the Metasploit ‘shikata_ga_nai’ encoder as well as LZNT1 compression. The main C2 used in this campaign is bbs.sonypsps[.]com, which resolved to an IP address that belongs to a Ukrainian ISP network, held by a MikroTik router using version 6.34.4 (March 2016) of the firmware with SMBv1 on board. We suspect that this router was hacked as part of the campaign in order to process the malware’s HTTP requests. The initial module drops three files that are typical for Chinese-speaking threat actors – a legitimate Symantec pcAnywhere file (‘intgstat.exe’) for DLL side-loading, a DLL launcher (‘pcalocalresloader.dll’) and the last-stage decompressor (‘thumb.db’). As a result of all these steps, the last-stage Trojan is injected into the process memory of ‘svchost.exe’. The launcher module, obfuscated with the notorious Metasploit ‘shikata_ga_nai’ encoder, is the same for all the droppers. The resulting de-obfuscated code performs typical side-loading: it patches the pcAnywhere image in memory at its entry-point. The patched code jumps back to the second ‘shikata_ga_nai’ iteration of the decryptor, but this time as part of the white-listed application. The Metasploit encoder obfuscates the last part of the launcher’s code, which in turn resolves the necessary API and maps ‘thumb.db’ into the memory of the same process (i.e. pcAnywhere). The first instructions in the mapped ‘thumb.db’ are for a new iteration of ‘shikata_ga_nai’. The decrypted code resolves the necessary API functions, decompresses the embedded PE file with ‘RtlCompressBuffer()’ using LZNT1 and maps it into memory. Olympic Destroyer In our first report on Olympic Destroyer , the cyberattack on the PyeongChang Winter Olympics, we highlighted a specific spear-phishing attack as the initial infection vector. The threat actor sent weaponized documents, disguised as Olympic-related content, to relevant persons and organizations. We have continued to track this APT group’s activities and recently noticed that they have started a new campaign with a different geographical distribution and using new themes. Our telemetry, and the characteristics of the spear-phishing documents we have analysed, indicate that the attackers behind Olympic Destroyer are now targeting financial and biotechnology-related organizations based in Europe – specifically, Russia, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland and Ukraine. The group continues to use a non-executable infection vector and highly obfuscated scripts to evade detection. The earlier Olympic Destroyer attacks – designed to destroy and paralyse infrastructure of the Winter Olympic Games and related supply chains, partners and venues – were preceded by a reconnaissance operation. It’s possible that the new activities are part of another reconnaissance stage that will be followed by a wave of destructive attacks with new motives. This is why it is important for all bio-chemical threat prevention and research companies and organizations in Europe to strengthen their security and run unscheduled security audits. The variety of financial and non-financial targets could indicate that the same malware is being used by several groups with different interests. This could also be a result of cyberattack outsourcing, which is not uncommon among nation state threat actors. However, it’s also possible that the financial targets might be another false flag operation by a threat actor that has already shown that they excel at this during their last campaign. It would be possible to draw certain conclusions about who is behind this campaign, based on the motives and selection of targets. However, it would be easy to make a mistake with only the fragments of the picture that are visible to researchers. The appearance of Olympic Destroyer at the start of this year, with its sophisticated deception efforts, changed the attribution game forever. In our view, it is no longer possible to draw conclusions based on a few attribution vectors discovered during a regular investigation. The response to threats such as Olympic Destroyer should be based on co-operation between the private sector and governments across national borders. Unfortunately, the current geo-political situation in the world only boosts the global segmentation of the internet and introduces many obstacles for researchers and investigators. This will encourage APT attackers to continue marching into the protected networks of foreign governments and commercial companies. Malware stories Leaking ads When we download popular apps with good ratings from official app stores, we assume they are safe. This is partially true, because usually these apps have been developed with security in mind and have been reviewed by the app store’s security team. Recently, we looked at 13 million APKs and discovered that around a quarter of them transmit unencrypted data over the internet. This was unexpected, because most apps were using HTTPS to communicate with their servers. But among the HTTPS requests, there were unencrypted requests to third-party servers. Some of these apps were very popular – in some cases they could boast hundreds of millions of downloads. On further inspection, it became clear that the apps were exposing customer data because of third-party SDKs – with advertising SDKs usually to blame. They collect data so that they can show relevant ads, but often fail to protect that data when sending it to their servers. In most cases t e apps were exposing IMEI, IMSI, Android ID, device information (e.g. manufacturer, model, screen resolution, system version and app name). Some apps were also exposing personal information, mostly the customer’s name, age, gender, phone number, e-mail address and even their income. Information transmitted over HTTP is sent in plain text, allowing almost anyone to read it. Moreover, there are likely to be several ‘transit points’ en route from the app to the third-party server – devices that receive and store information for a certain period of time. Any network equipment, including your home router, could be vulnerable. If hacked, it will give the attackers access to your data. Some of the device information gathered (specifically IMEI and IMSI numbers) is enough to monitor your further actions. The more complete the information, the more of an open book you are to outsiders — from advertisers to fake friends offering malicious files for download. However, data leakage is only part of the problem. It’s also possible for unencrypted information to be substituted. For example, in response to an HTTP request from an app, the server might return a video ad, which cybercriminals can intercept and replace with a malicious version. Or they might simply change the link inside an ad so that it downloads malware. You can find the research here , including our advice to developers and consumers. SynAck targeted ransomware uses the Doppelganging technique In April 2018, we saw a version of the SynAck ransomware Trojan that employs the Process Doppelganging technique. This technique, first presented in December 2017 at the BlackHat conference , has been used by several threat actors to try and bypass modern security solutions. It involves using NTFS transactions to launch a malicious process from the transacted file so that it looks like a legitimate process. Malware developers often use custom packers to try and protect their code. In most cases, they can be effortlessly packed to reveal the original Trojan executable so that it can then be analyzed. However, the authors of SynAck obfuscated their code prior to compilation, further complicating the analysis process. SynAck checks the directory where its executable is started from. If an attempt is made to launch it from an ‘incorrect’ directory, the Trojan simply exits. This is designed to counter automatic sandbox analysis. The Trojan also checks to see if is being launched on a PC with the keyboard set to a Cyrillic script. If it is, it sleeps for 300 seconds and then exits, to prevent encryption of files belonging to victims from countries where Cyrillic is used. Like other ransomware, SynAck uses a combination of symmetric and asymmetric encryption algorithms. You can find the details here . The attacks are highly targeted, with a limited number of attacks observed against targets in the US, Kuwait, Germany and Iran. The ransom demands can be as high as $3,000. Roaming Mantis In May we published our analysis of a mobile banking Trojan, Roaming Mantis. We called it this because of its propagation via smartphones roaming between different Wi-Fi networks, although the malware is also known as ‘Moqhao’ and ‘XLoader’. This malicious Android app is spread using DNS hijacking through compromised routers. The victims are redirected to malicious IP addresses used to install malicious apps – called ‘facebook.apk’ and ‘chrome.apk’. The attackers count on the fact that victims are unlikely to be suspicious as long as the browser displays the legitimate URL. The malware is designed to steal user information, including credentials for two-factor authentication, and give the attackers full control over compromised Android devices. The malware seems to be financially motivated and the low OPSEC suggests that this is the work of cybercriminals. Our telemetry indicates that the malware was detected more than 6,000 times between February 9 and April 9, although the reports came from just 150 unique victims – some of whom saw the same malware appear again and again on their network. Our research revealed that there were thousands of daily connections to the attackers’ C2 infrastructure. The malware contains Android application IDs for popular mobile banking and game applications in South Korea. It seems the malicious app was initially targeted at victims in South Korea and this is where the malware was most prevalent. We also saw infections in China, India and Bangladesh. It’s unclear how the attackers were able to hijack the router settings. If you are concerned about DNS settings on your router, you should check the user manual to verify that your DNS settings haven’t been tampered with, or contact your ISP for support. We would also strongly recommend that you change the default login and password for the admin web interface of the router, don’t install firmware from third-party sources and update the router firmware regularly to prevent similar attacks. Some clues left behind by the attackers – for example, comments in the HTML source, malware strings and a hardcoded legitimate website – point to Simplified Chinese. So we believe the cybercriminals are familiar with both Simplified Chinese and Korean. Following our report, we continued to track this campaign. Less than a month later, Roaming Mantis had rapidly expanded its activities to include countries in Europe, the Middle East and beyond, supporting 27 languages in total. The attackers also extended their activities beyond Android devices . On iOS, Roaming Mantis uses a phishing site to steal the victim’s credentials. When the victim connects to the landing page from an iOS device, they are redirected to fake ‘http://security.apple.com/’ webpage where the attackers steal user ID, password, card number, card expiry date and CVV . On PCs, Roaming Mantis runs the CoinHive mining script to generate crypto-currency for the attackers – drastically increasing the victim’s CPU usage. The evasion techniques used by Roaming Mantis have also become more sophisticated. They include a new method of retrieving the C2 by using the e-mail POP protocol, server-side dynamic auto-generation of APK file/filenames and the inclusion of an additional command to potentially assist in identifying research environments. The rapid growth of the campaign implies that those behind it have a strong financial motivation and are probably well-funded. If it’s smart, it’s potentially vulnerable Our many years of experience in researching cyberthreats suggests that if a device is connected to the internet, eventually someone will try to hack it. This includes children’s CCTV cameras, baby monitors, household appliances and even children’s toys. This also applies to routers – the gateway into a home network. In May, we described four vulnerabilities and hardcoded accounts in the firmware of the D-Link DIR-620 router – this runs on various D-Link routers supplied to customers by one of the biggest ISPs in Russia. The latest versions of the firmware have hardcoded default credentials that can be exploited by an unauthenticated attacker to gain privileged access to the firmware and to extract sensitive data – for example, configuration files with plain-text passwords. The vulnerable web interface allows an unauthenticated attacker to run arbitrary JavaScript code in the user environment and run arbitrary commands in the router’s operating system. The issues were originally identified in firmware version 1.0.37, although some of the discovered vulnerabilities were also identified in other version of the firmware. You can read the details on the vulnerabilities here . In May, we also investigated smart devices for animals – specifically, trackers to monitor the location of pets. These gadgets are able to access the pet owner’s home network and phone, and their pet’s location. We wanted to find out how secure they are. Our researchers looked at several popular trackers for potential vulnerabilities . Four of the trackers we looked at use Bluetooth LE technology to communicate with the owner’s smartphone. But only one does so correctly. The others can receive and execute commands from anyone. They can also be disabled, or hidden from the owner – all that’s needed is proximity to the tracker. Only one of the tested Android apps verifies the certificate of its server, without relying solely on the system. As a result, they are vulnerable to Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) attacks—intruders can intercept transmitted data by ‘persuading’ victims to install their certificate. GPS trackers have been used successfully in many areas, but using them to track the location of pets is a step beyond their traditional scope of application. For this, they need to be upgraded with new ‘user communication interfaces’ and ‘trained’ to work with cloud services, etc. If security is not properly addressed, user data becomes accessible to intruders, potentially endangering both users and pets. Some of our researchers recently looked at human wearable devices – specifically, smart watches and fitness trackers. We were interested in a scenario where a spying app installed on a smartphone could send data from the built-in motion sensors (accelerometer and gyroscope) to a remote server and use the data to piece together the wearer’s actions – walking, sitting, typing, etc. We started with an Android-based smartphone, created a simple app to process and transmit the data and then looked at what we could get from this data. Not only was it possible to work out if the wearer is sitting or walking, but also figure out if they are out for a stroll or changing subway trains, because the accelerometer patterns differ slightly – this is how fitness trackers distinguish between walking and cycling. It is also easy to see when someone is typing. However, finding out what they are typing would be hard and would require repeated text entry. Our researchers were able to determine the moments when a computer password entered with 96 per cent accuracy and a PIN code entered at an ATM with 87 per cent accuracy. However, it would be much harder to obtain other information – for example, a credit card number or CVC code – because of the lack of predictability about when the victim would type such information. In reality, the difficulty involved in obtaining such information means that an attacker would have to have a strong motive for targeting someone specific. Of course, there are situations where this might be worthwhile for attackers . An MitM extension for Chrome Many browser extensions make our lives easier, hiding obtrusive advertising, translating text, helping us to choose the goods we want in online stores, etc. Unfortunately, there are also less desirable extensions that are used to bombard us with advertising or collect information about our activities. Then there are extensions whose main aim is to steal money. In the course of our work, we analyse a large number of extensions from different sources. Recently, a particular browser extension caught our eye because it communicated with a suspicious domain. This extension, named ‘ Desbloquear Conteúdo’ (which means ‘Unblock Content’ in Portuguese) targeted customers of Brazilian online banking services – all the attempted installations that we traced occurred in Brazil. The aim of this malicious extension is to harvest logins and passwords and then steal money from the victims’ bank accounts. Such extensions are quite rare, but they need to be taken seriously because of the potential damage they can cause. You should only install verified extensions with large numbers of installations and reviews in the Chrome Web Store or other official service. Even so, in spite of the protection measures implemented by the owners of such services, malicious extensions can still end up being published there. So it’s a good idea to use an internet security product that gives you a warning if an extension acts suspiciously. By the time we published our report on this malicious extension , it had already been removed from the Chrome Web Store. The World Cup of fraud Fraudsters are always on the lookout for opportunities to make money off the back of major sporting events. The FIFA World Cup is no different. Long before anyone kicked a football in Russia, cybercriminals had started to create phishing websites and send messages exploiting World Cup themes. This included notifications of fake lottery wins, informing recipients that they had won cash in a lottery supposedly held by FIFA or official partners and sponsors. They typically contain attached documents congratulating the ‘winner’ and asking for personal details such as name, address, e-mail address, telephone number, etc. Sometimes such messages also contain malicious programs, such as banking Trojans. Sometimes recipients are invited to take part in a ticket giveaway, or they are offered the chance to win a trip to a match. Such messages are sent in the name of FIFA, usually from addresses on recently registered domains. The purpose of such schemes is mainly to update e-mail databases used to distribute more spam. One of the most popular ways to steal banking and other credentials is to create counterfeit imitations of official partner websites. Partner organizations often arrange ticket giveaways for clients, and attackers exploit this to lure their victims onto fake promotion sites. Such pages look very convincing: they are well-designed, with a working interface, and are hard to distinguish from the real thing. Some fraudsters buy SSL certificates to add further credibility to their fake sites. Cybercriminals are particularly keen to target clients of Visa, the tournament’s commercial sponsor, offering prize giveaways in Visa’s name. To take part, people need to follow a link that points to a phishing site where they are asked to enter their bank card details, including the CVV/CVC code. Cybercriminals also try to extract data by mimicking official FIFA notifications. The victim is informed that the security system has been updated and all personal data must be re-entered to avoid being locked out. The link in the message takes the victim to a fake account and all the data they enter is harvested by the scammers. In the run up to the tournament, we also registered a lot of spam advertising soccer-related merchandise, though sometimes the scammers try to sell other things too – for example, pharmaceutical products. You can find our report on the ways cybercriminals have exploited the World Cup in order to make money here . We’ve provided some tips on how to avoid phishing scams – advice that holds good for any phishing scams, not just for those related to the World Cup. In the run up to the tournament, we also analyzed wireless access points in 11 cities hosting FIFA World Cup matches – nearly 32,000 Wi-Fi hotspots in total. While checking encryption and authentication algorithms, we counted the number of WPA2 and open networks, as well as their share among all the access points. More than a fifth of Wi-Fi hotspots use unreliable networks. This means that criminals simply need to be located near an access point to intercept the traffic and get their hands on people’s data. Around three quarters of all access points use WPA/WPA2 encryption, considered to be one of the most secure. The level of protection mostly depends on the settings, such as the strength of the password set by the hotspot owner. A complicated encryption key can take years to successfully hack. However, even reliable networks, like WPA2, cannot be automatically considered totally secure. They are still susceptible to brute-force , dictionary and key reinstallation attacks, for which there are a large number of tutorials and open source tools available online. Any attempt to intercept traffic from WPA Wi-Fi in public access points can also be made by penetrating the gap between the access point and the device at the beginning of the session. You can read our report here , together with our recommendations on the safe use of Wi-Fi hotspots, advice that holds good wherever you may be – not just at the World Cup.
On May 23 2018, our colleagues from Cisco Talos published their excellent analysis of VPNFilter , an IoT / router malware which exhibits some worrying characteristics. Some of the things which stand out about VPNFilter are: It has a redundant, multi-stage command and control mechanism which uses three different channels to receive information It has a multi-stage architecture, in which some of the more complex functionality runs only in the memory of the infected devices It contains a destructive payload which is capable of rendering the infected devices unbootable It uses a broken (or incorrect) RC4 implementation which has been observed before with the BlackEnergy malware Stage 2 command and control can be executed over TOR, meaning it will be hard to notice for someone checking the network traffic We’ve decided to look a bit into the C&C mechanism for the persistent malware payload. As described in the Talos blog, this mechanism has several stages: First, the malware tries to visit a number of gallery pages hosted on photobucket[.]com and fetches the first image from the page. If this fails, the malware tries fetching an image file from a hardcoded domain, toknowall[.]com. This C2 domain is currently sinkholed by the FBI. If that fails as well, the malware goes into a passive backdoor mode, in which it processes network traffic on the infected device waiting for the attacker’s commands. For the first two scenarios in which the malware successfully receives an image file, a C2 extraction subroutine is called which converts the image EXIF coordinates into an IPv4 address. This is used as an easy way to avoid using DNS lookups to reach the C&C. Of course, in case this fails, the malware will indeed lookup the hardcoded domain (toknowall[.]com). It may be worth pointing that in the past, the BlackEnergy APT devs have shown a preference for using IP addresses for C&C instead of hardcoded domain names, which can be easily sinkholed. To analyse the EXIF processing mechanism, we looked into the sample 5f358afee76f2a74b1a3443c6012b27b , mentioned in the Talos blog. The sample is an i386 ELF binary and is about 280KB in size. Unfortunately for researchers, it appears that the photobucket.com galleries used by the malware have been deleted, so the malware cannot use the first C2 mechanism anymore. For instance: With these galleries unavailable, the malware tries to reach the hardcoded domain toknowall[.]com. While looking at the pDNS history for this domain, we noticed that it resolved to an IP addresses in France, at OVH, between Jan and Feb 2018: Interestingly, when visiting this website’s C2 URL, we are presented with a JPG image, suggesting it is still an active C2: Here’s how it looks when viewed as an image: When we look into the EXIF data for the picture, for instance using IrfanView, it looks as following: Filename – update.jpg GPS information: – GPSLatitude – 97 30 -175 (97.451389) GPSLongitude – -118 140 -22 (-115.672778) How to get the IP out of these? The subroutine which calculates the C2 IP from the Latitude and Longitude can be found at offset 0x08049160 in the sample. As it turns out, VPNFilter implements an actual EXIF parser to get the required information. First, it searches for a binary value 0xE1. This makes sense because the EXIF attribute information begins with a tag “0xFF 0xE1”. Then, it verifies that the tag is followed by a string “Exif”. This is the exact data that should appear in a correct header of the Exif tag: Exif tag FF E1 Exif tag xx Length of field 45 78 69 66 00 ‘Exif’ 00 Padding The tag is followed by an additional header: “Attribute information” header 49 49 (or 4D 4D) Byte order, ‘II’ for little endian (‘MM’ for big endian) 2A 00 Fixed value xx xx Offset of the first IFD The data following this header is supposed to be the actual “attribute information” that is organized in so-called IFDs (Image File Directory) that are data records of a specific format. Each IFD consists of the following data: IFD record xx xx IFD tag xx xx Data type xx xx xx xx Number of data records of the same data type xx xx xx xx Offset of the actual data, from the beginning of the EXIF The malware’s parser carefully traverses each record until it finds the one with a tag ’25 88′ (0x8825 little endian). This is the tag value for “GPS Info”. That IFD record is, in turn, a list of tagged IFD records that hold separate values for latitude, longitude, timestamp, speed, etc. In our case, the code is looking for the tags ‘2’ (latitude) and ‘4’ (longitude). The data for latitude and longitude are stored as three values in the “rational” format : two 32-bit values, the first is the enumerator and the second one is the denominator. Each of these three values corresponds to degrees, minutes and seconds, respectively. Then, for each record of interest, the code extracts the enumerator part and produces a string of three integers (i.e. “97 30 4294967121” and “4294967178 140 4294967274″ that will be displayed by a typical EXIF parser as 1193143 deg 55′ 21.00″, 4296160226 deg 47′ 54.00”). Then, curiously enough, it uses sscanf() to convert these strings back to integers. This may indicate that the GPS Info parser was taken from a third-party source file and used as-is. The extracted integers are then used to produce an actual IP address. The pseudocode in C is as follows: const char lat[] = "97 30 4294967121"; // from Exif data const char lon[] = "4294967178 140 4294967274"; // from Exif data int o1p1, o1p2, o2p1, o3p1, o3p2, o4p1; uint8_t octets[4]; sscanf(lat, "%d %d %d", &o1p2, &o1p1, &o2p1); sscanf(lon, "%d %d %d", &o3p2, &o3p1, &o4p1); octets[0] = o1p1 + ( o1p2 + 0x5A ); octets[1] = o2p1 + ( o1p2 + 0x5A ); octets[2] = o3p1 + ( o3p2 + 0xB4 ); octets[3] = o4p1 + ( o3p2 + 0xB4 ); printf("%u.%u.%u.%u\n", octets[0], octets[1], octets[2], octets[3]);
Targeted attacks and malware campaigns Skygofree: sophisticated mobile surveillance In January, we uncovered a sophisticated mobile implant that provides attackers with remote control of infected Android devices. The malware, called Skygofree (after one of the domains it uses), is a targeted cyber-surveillance tool that has been in development since 2014. The malware is spread by means of spoofed web pages that mimic leading mobile providers. The campaign is ongoing and our telemetry indicates that there have been several victims, all in Italy. We feel confident that the developer of Skygofree is an Italian IT company that works on surveillance solutions. The latest version of Skygofree includes functionality that has so far not been seen in the wild. Features include the ability to eavesdrop on conversations when the victim moves into a specific location; using Accessibility Services to capture WhatsApp messages and the ability to force an infected device to Wi-Fi networks controlled by the attackers. The malware includes multiple exploits for root access and is capable of stealing pictures and videos, capturing call records, SMS, geo-location, calendar events and business-related data stored in the device’s memory. The Skygofree implant puts itself in the list of ‘protected apps’, so that it doesn’t get switched off when the screen is off (this is to work around a battery-saving technique that has been implemented by one of the top device vendors.) Our investigation also uncovered several spyware tools for Windows that form an implant for stealing sensitive data from a target computer. The version we found was created at the start of 2017: at the moment, we do not know if this implant has been used in the wild. Since then we have also found a version for iOS that uses a rogue MDM (Mobile Device Management) server in order to infect devices. Olympic Destroyer… but who did the ‘destroying’? The issue of attribution was thrown into sharp relief following the malware attack on the Olympic infrastructure just before the opening of the games in February. Olympic Destroyer shut down display monitors, killed Wi-Fi and took down the Olympics web site – preventing visitors from to printing tickets. The attack also affected other organizations in the region – for example, ski gates and ski lifts were disabled at several South Korean ski resorts. Olympic Destroyer is a network worm, the main purpose of which is to deliver and start a wiper payload that tries to destroy files on remote network shares in the following 60 minutes. In the meantime, the main module collects user passwords from the browser and Windows storage and crafts a new generation of the worm that contains old and freshly-collected compromised credentials. This new generation worm is pushed to accessible local network computers and starts using the PsExec tool, drawing on the stolen credentials and current user privileges. Once the wiper has run for 60 minutes it cleans Windows event logs, resets backups, deletes shadow copies from the file system, disables the recovery item in the Windows boot menu, disables all services on the system and reboots the computer. Those files on the network shares that it was able to wipe within 60 minutes remain destroyed. The malware doesn’t use any persistence and even contains protection against recurring reinfection. One of the most notable aspects of this incident was the ‘attribution hell’ that followed. In the days after the attack, research teams and media companies around the world variously attributed the attack to Russia, China and North Korea – based on a number of features previously attributed to cyber-espionage and sabotage groups allegedly based in these countries or working for the governments of these countries. Our own researchers were also trying to understand which group was behind the attack. At one stage during our research, we discovered something that seemed to indicate that the Lazarus group was behind the attack. We found a unique trace left by the attackers that exactly matched a previously known Lazarus malware component. However, the lack of obvious motive and inconsistencies with known Lazarus TTPs (tactics, techniques and procedures) that we found during our on-site investigation at a compromised facility in South Korea led us to look again at this artefact. When we did so, we discovered that the set of features didn’t match the code – it had been forged to perfectly match the fingerprint used by Lazarus. So we concluded that the ‘fingerprint’ was a very sophisticated false flag, intentionally placed inside the malware in order to give threat hunters the impression that they had found a ‘smoking gun’ and diverting them from a more accurate attribution. The problems associated with attribution must be taken seriously. Given how politicised cyberspace has recently become, incorrect attribution could lead to severe consequences; and it’s possible that threat actors might try to manipulate the opinion of the security community in order to influence the geo-political agenda. Sofacy turns eastwards Sofacy (aka APT28, Fancy Bear and Tsar Team) is a highly active and prolific cyber-espionage group that Kaspersky Lab has been tracking for many years. In February, we published an overview of Sofacy activities in 2017 , revealing a gradual moved away from NATO-related targets at the start of 2017, towards targets in the Middle East, Central Asia and beyond. Sofacy uses spear-phishing and watering-hole attacks to steal information, including account credentials, sensitive communications and documents. This threat actor also makes use of zero-day vulnerabilities to deploy its malware Sofacy uses different tools for different target profiles. Early in 2017, the group’s ‘Dealer’s Choice’ campaign was used to target military and diplomatic organizations (mainly in NATO countries and Ukraine). Later in the year, the group used other tools from its arsenal, ‘Zebrocy’ and ‘SPLM’, to target a broader range of organizations, including science and engineering centers and press services, with more of a focus on Central Asia and the Far East. Sophisticated threat actors such as Sofacy continually develop the tools they use. The group maintains a high level of operational security and focuses on making its malware hard to detect. In the case of groups such as Sofacy, once any signs of their activity have been found in a network, it’s important to review logins and unusual administrator access on systems, thoroughly scan and sandbox incoming attachments, and maintain two-factor authentication for services such as e-mail and VPN access. The use of APT intelligence reports , threat hunting tools such as YARA and advanced detection solutions such as KATA (Kaspersky Anti Targeted Attack Platform) will help you to understand their targeting and provide powerful ways of detecting their activities. Our research shows that Sofacy is not the only threat actor operating in the Far East and this sometimes results in a target overlap between very different threat actors . We have seen cases where Sofacy’s Zebrocy malware has competed for access to victim’s computers with the Russian-speaking Mosquito Turla clusters; and where its SPLM backdoor has competed with the traditional Turla and Chinese-speaking Danti attacks. The shared targets included government administration, technology, science and military-related organizations in or from Central Asia. The most intriguing overlap is probably that between Sofacy and the English-speaking threat actor behind The Lamberts. The connection was discovered after researchers detected the presence of Sofacy on a server that threat intelligence had previously identified as compromised by Grey Lambert malware. The server belongs to a Chinese conglomerate that designs and manufactures aerospace and air defense technologies. However, in this case the original SPLM delivery vector remains unknown. This raises a number of hypothetical possibilities, including the fact that Sofacy could be using a new and as yet undetected exploit or a new strain of its backdoor, or that Sofacy somehow managed to harness Grey Lambert’s communication channels to download its malware. It could even be a false flag, planted during the previous Lambert infection. We think that the most likely answer is that an unknown new PowerShell script or legitimate but vulnerable web app was exploited to load and execute the SPLM code. Slingshot: a route[r] into the network One of the presentations at this year’s Kaspersky Security Analyst Summit was a report on a sophisticated cyber-espionage platform that has targeted victims in the Middle East and Africa since 2012. Slingshot uses an unusual (and, as far as we know, unique) attack vector. Many of the victims were attacked by means of compromised MikroTik routers. The exact method for compromising the routers is not clear, but the attackers have found a way to add a malicious DLL to the device. This DLL is a downloader for other malicious files that are then stored on the router. When a system administrator logs in to configure the router, the router’s management software downloads and runs a malicious module on the administrator’s computer. Slingshot loads a number of modules onto the victim’s computer, including two huge and powerful ones: Cahnadr, a kernel mode module, and GollumApp, a user mode module. The two modules are connected and support each other in gathering information, persistence and data exfiltration. GollumApp is the most sophisticated of the modules: it contains nearly 1,500 user-code functions and provides most of the routines for persistence, file system control and C2 (Command-and-Control) communications. Cahnadr (also known as NDriver) contains low-level routines for network, IO operations and so on. Its kernel-mode program is able to execute malicious code without crashing the whole file system or causing a blue screen – a remarkable achievement. Cahnadr, written in pure C language, provides full access to the hard drive and operating memory, notwithstanding device security restrictions, and carries out integrity control of various system components to avoid debugging and security detection. Slingshot incorporates a number of techniques to help it evade detection. These include encrypting all strings in its modules, calling system services directly in order to bypass security-product hooks, using a number of anti-debugging techniques and selecting which process to inject depending on the installed and running security solution processes. Further information on target ed attack activity in the first quarter of 2018 can be found in the APT trends report for Q1 2018. Malware stories A Spectre is haunting Europe – and anywhere else with vulnerable CPUs Two severe vulnerabilities affecting Intel CPUs were reported early in 2018. Dubbed ‘Meltdown’ and ‘Spectre’, they respectively allow an attacker to read memory from any process and from its own process. The vulnerabilities have been around since at least 2011. Rumours of a new attack on Intel CPUs emerged at the start of December 2017 when e-mails on the LKML (Linux kernel mailing list) appeared about adding the KAISER patches to the Linux kernel. These patches, designed to separate the user address space from the kernel address space, were originally intended to ‘close all hardware side channels on kernel address information’. It was the impact of this seemingly drastic measure, with its clear performance impact, that had prompted the rumours. This attack, now known as Meltdown (CVE-2017-5754), is able to read data from any process on the host system. While code execution is required, this can be obtained in various ways – for example, through a software bug or by visiting a malicious website that loads JavaScript code that executes the Meltdown attack. This means that all the data residing in memory (passwords, encryption keys, PINs, etc.) could be read if the vulnerability is exploited properly. Meltdown affects most Intel CPUs and some ARM CPUs. Vendors were quick to publish patches for the most popular operating systems. The Microsoft update, released on 3 January, was not compatible with all anti-virus programs – possibly resulting in a BSoD (Blue Screen of Death) on incompatible systems. So updates could only be installed if an anti-virus product had first set a specific registry key, to indicate that there were no compatibility problems. Spectre (CVE-2017-5753 and CVE-2017-5715) is slightly different. Unlike Meltdown, this attack also works on other architectures (such as AMD and ARM). Also, Spectre is only able to read the memory space of the exploited process, and not that of any process. More importantly, aside from some counter-measures in some browsers, no universal solution is readily available for Spectre. It became clear in the weeks following the reports of the vulnerabilities that they are not easily fixable. Spectre in particular opened new ways of exploitation that might affect different software in the months and years to come. Most of the released patches have reduced the attack surface, mitigating against known ways of exploiting them, but do not eradicate it completely. Since the problem is fundamental to the working of the vulnerable CPUs, it’s likely that vendors will have to deal with new ways of exploiting the vulnerabilities for years to come. O smart new world… These days we’re surrounded by smart devices. This includes everyday household objects such as TVs, smart meters, thermostats, baby monitors and children’s toys. But it also includes cars, medical devices, CCTV cameras and parking meters. We’re even seeing the emergence of smart cities. However, this offers a greater attack surface to anyone looking to take advantage of security weaknesses – for whatever purpose. Securing traditional computers is difficult. But things are more problematic with the Internet of Things, where lack of standardization leaves developers able to ignore security, or to consider it as an afterthought. There are plenty of examples to illustrate this. We’ve looked before at vulnerabilities in smart devices around the home. But some of our researchers recently explored the possibility that a smart hub might be vulnerable to attack . A smart hub lets you control the operation of other smart devices in the home, receiving information and issuing commands. Smart hubs might be controlled through a touch screen, or through a mobile app or web interface. If it’s vulnerable, it would potentially provide a single point of failure. While the smart hub our researchers investigated didn’t contain significant vulnerabilities, there were logical mistakes that were enough to allow our researchers to obtain remote access. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab ICS CERT recently checked a popular smart camera , to see how well protected it is from hackers. Smart cameras are now part of everyday life. Many now connect to the cloud, allowing someone to monitor what’s happening at a remote location –to check on pets, for security surveillance, etc. The model our researchers investigated is marketed as an all-purpose tool – suitable for use as a baby monitor, or as part of a security system. The camera is able to see in the dark, follow a moving object, stream footage to a smartphone or tablet and play back sound through a built-in speaker. Unfortunately, the camera turned out to have 13 vulnerabilities – almost as many as it has features – that could allow an attacker to change the administrator password, execute arbitrary code on the device, build a botnet of compromised cameras or stop it functioning completely. Before buying any connected device, it’s important to keep security in mind. Consider if you really need the device. If you do, check the functions available and disable any that you don’t need, to reduce your attack surface. Look online for information about any vulnerabilities that have been reported. Check to see if it’s possible to update the firmware on the device. Always change the default password and replace it with a unique, complex password. Don’t share serial numbers, IP addresses and other sensitive data relating to the device on ine. You can use the free Kaspersky IoT Scanner to check your Wi-Fi network and tell you if the devices connected to it are safe. Potential problems are not limited to consumer devices. Recently, Ido Naor, a researcher from our Global Research and Analysis Team and Amihai Neiderman, then at Azimuth Security, discovered a vulnerability in an automation device for a gas station . This device was directly connected to the Internet and was responsible for managing every component of the station, including fuel dispensers and payment terminals. Even more alarming, the web interface for the device was accessible with default credentials. Further investigation revealed that it was possible to shut down all fueling systems, cause fuel a leakage, change the price, circumvent the payment terminal (in order to steal money), capture vehicle license plates and driver identities, execute code on the controller unit and even move freely across the gas station network. It’s no less important for vendors to improve their security approach to ensure that security is considered when products are being designed. Kaspersky Lab, as a member of the ITU-T Study Group 20, was a contributor to the development of Recommendation ITU-T T.4806 , designed to classify security issues, examine potential threats and determine how cyber-security measures can support the safe execution of IoT systems tasks. This applies mostly to safety-critical IoT systems such as industrial automation, automotive systems, transportation, smart cities, and wearable and standalone medical devices. IoT-medicine under siege Technology is driving improvements in healthcare. It has the power to transform the quality and reduce the cost of health and care services. It can also give patients and citizens more control over their care, empower carers and support the development of new medicines and treatments. However, new healthcare technologies and mobile working practices are producing more data than ever before, at the same time providing more opportunities for data to be lost or stolen. We’ve highlighted the issues several times over the last few years – for example, in the articles ‘ Hospitals are under attack in 2016 ‘, ‘ The mistakes of smart medicine ‘ and ‘ Connected medicine and its diagnosis ‘. The number of medical data breaches continues to increase: Over the last year we’ve continued to track the activities of cybercriminals, looking at how they penetrate medical networks, how they find data on publicly available medical resources and how they exfiltrate it. This includes open ports: And the services that sit behind them: More than 60 per cent of medical organizations had some kind of malware on their computers: We saw even more attacks on organizations closely connected to hospitals, clinics and doctors – that is, in the pharmaceutical industry: It’s vital that medical facilities remove all nodes that process personal medical data, update software and remove applications that are no longer needed, and do not connect expensive medical equipment to the main LAN. You can find more detailed tips here . Crypto-currency mining is the new black In the legitimate economy, capital tends to flow into areas where it will be most profitable. It’s no different with cybercrime. Malware development is focused in areas that are likely to be more lucrative. So it’s no surprise that, as crypto-currencies become a mainstream feature of society, we’ve seen a growth in the number of malicious crypto-currency miners . In 2017, we blocked malicious miners on the computers of 2.7 million Kaspersky Lab customers – compared to 1.87 million in 2016. This is now beginning to eclipse ransomware as a way of making money illegally. As the name suggests, crypto-currency miners are programs designed to hijack the victim’s CPU in order to mine crypto-currencies. Like ransomware, the business model is simple: infect victim’s computer, use the processing power of their CPU or GPU to generate coins and earn real-world money through legal exchanges and transactions. Unlike ransomware, it’s not obvious to the victim that they are infected – most people seldom use most of their computer’s processing power; and miners harness the 70 to 80 per cent that is not being used for anything else. Crypto-miners are installed – on the computers of consumers and businesses alike – alongside adware, cracked games and pirated content. It’s becoming easy for cybercriminals to create miners, because of ready to use partner programs, open mining pools and miner-builders. Another method is web mining, where cybercriminals insert a script into a compromised web site that mines crypto-currencies while the victim browses the site. Other criminal groups are more selective, using exploits to install miners on the servers of large companies, rather than trying to infect lots of individuals. Some of the ways cybercriminals install malicious miners in the network of corporate victims are very sophisticated, resembling the methods of APT attackers. Our researchers identified a case where the attackers used a process-hollowing technique. The infection starts with the download of a potentially unwanted application (PUA) that contains the miner. This miner installer drops the legitimate Windows utility ‘msiexec’ with a random name, which downloads and executes a malicious module from a remote server. The next step is to install a malicious scheduler task that drops the body of the miner. This executes the legitimate system process and uses a process-hollowing technique whereby the legitimate process code is switched for malicious code. A special system critical flag is set for this new process: if the victim tries to kill this process, Windows reboots. Using such techniques, we estimate that mining botnets generated more than $7,000,000 in the second half of 2017. You can find tips on securing businesses from malicious miners here . Our data in their hands Personal data is valuable. This is evident from the regular news reports of data breaches. These include the theft of huge amounts of data and the re-use of stolen credentials . However, the recent scandal involving the use, by Cambridge Analytica, of Facebook data is a reminder that personal information is not just valuable to cybercriminals. In many cases, personal data is the price people pay to obtain a product or service – ‘free’ browsers, ‘free’ e-mail accounts, ‘free’ social network accounts, etc. But not always. Increasingly, we’re surrounded by smart devices that are capable of gathering details on the minutiae of our lives. Earlier this year, one journalist turned her apartment into a smart home in order to measure how much data was being collected by the firms that made the devices . Since we generally pay for such devices, the harvesting of data can hardly be seen as the price we pay for the benefits they bring in these cases. The issues surrounding security and privacy of data continue to make headlines, not least as we approach 25 May, 2018 and the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation. It will, of course, be interesting to see what impact the legislation has. But we should not forget that we should all consider what data we share, with whom, and how it might be used. It’s vital to take steps to secure our data, by using unique, complex passwords for each account and by using two-factor authentication where it’s available.
Sofacy, also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, and Tsar Team, is a prolific, well resourced, and persistent adversary. They are sometimes portrayed as wild and reckless, but as seen under our visibility, the group can be pragmatic, measured, and agile. Our previous post on their 2017 activity stepped away from the previously covered headline buzz presenting their association with previously known political hacks and interest in Europe and the US, and examines their under-reported ongoing activity in middle east, central asia, and now a shift in targeting further east, including China, along with an overlap surprise. There is much understated activity that can be clustered within this set and overlap in APT activity . Here, we examine current deployment, code, cryptography, and targeting. Essentially, this examination finds the group maintains subdivisions of efforts in targeting, development, and coding. Comparisons to other modules quickly shows a delineation in other Sofacy efforts. SPLM, GAMEFISH, and Zebrocy delivery all maintain their own clusters, but frequently overlap later. Because SPLM is their primary and selective second stage tool, SPLM deployment is of much interest. But Zebrocy efforts are in such high volume, that these modules need examination as well. SPLM/CHOPSTICK/XAgent Code SPLM, otherwise known as CHOPSTICK, or by the author(s) as “XAgent”, is described as Sofacy’s signature second stage tool, selectively used for years against around the world. Really, many modified XAgent modules have been deployed over the years. Even the individual Linux modules renamed as “Fysbis” backdoors released in 2016 were merely modified and reduced portions of recompiled XAgent C/C++ codebase. Anyway, SPLM/CHOPSTICK has maintained various combinations of code, with some recognizable functionality listed here. Source Modules Channels Modules Keylogger HTTP Channels RemoteShell FTP Boot FileSystem SMTP Library Launcher MainHandler CameraShot InjectApp Screenshot FileObserver PasswordFirefox InfoOS Version 3 and early version 4 SPLM modules maintained keylogger, remoteshell, and filestealer code all within the larger compiled backdoor, and executed each body of functionality from within that process memory space. Later v4 SPLM injected individual keylogger, filestealer, and remoteshell modules into memory space. But for the most part, deployed SPLM maintained the structure of earlier executable code. In 2018, we now see them pushing individual and separate blobs of keylogger, filesystem, and remoteshell code that never touch disk. The larger, 300kb+ SPLM backdoors deployed in 2016 and 2017 are not observed any longer at targets in 2018. Instead, in-memory modules appear in isolation. In addition to purely XAgent based code, we also observe zebrocy modules completely recoded into powershell from .Net. Code and Crypto Comparisons Current SPLM code maintains the unusual cipher hack that Sofacy began deploying in 2017 to hide away configuration details. Comparisons with cipher design and implementations we see in WhiteBear, earlier SPLM and Zebrocy modules tell a few things about design decisions and culture. And when specific malware sets are selectively deployed, that may tell us something about how efforts are divided. SPLM full backdoor and plugins crypto and strings v4 973ff7eb7a5b720c5f6aafe4cd0469d5 Summary: SPLM is being carved up and delivered as memory-only chunks of compiled code. We observe the “retranslator” code, or ProcessRetranslator.dll, currently being delivered to systems without the presence of the previous, large, SPLM code and injection capabilities. The smaller plugins deployed in 2018 now maintain the same dynamic encryption code as the large 330kb full SPLM backdoors seen in more widespread use in 2017. Strings are well organized and concise. Code and strings example (decrypted from 2018 “ProcessRetranslator.dll” plugin): success command not correct error save parameters error set parameters for channel, see full info command processing error not correct command command loading func/net module error command unloading func/net module error cmd.exe Retranslator is now launched Retranslator is now stopped the process is destroyed one thread has died so the process is killed too create process failed on: (%s) , error (%d) Retranslator is already running Retranslator is not running exit command is successful command is unsuccessful SPLM crypto v3 (DNC hack) cc9e6578a47182a941a478b276320e06 Summary: This earlier SPLM variant found on the DNC network in 2016 still maintains the internal name “splm.dll”, with only one export “init” that was called at runtime. The C++ structure of this 280kb+ dll is familiar SPLM/CHOPSTICK, but it maintains a completely different cipher for decrypting configuration data and error messages, etc. The loop performing the bulk of the work is less than 100 bytes, performing pointer arithmetic alongside a couple xor operations of a lower nibble against sequential bytes. Here, the cipher uses a modolo pointer arithmetic along with a decryption key per blob. Reviewing all the older ciphers and newer EC based ciphers in openssl and elsewhere results in no match. WhiteBear code and strings Summary: WhiteBear is a cluster of activity targeting foreign embassies and MFA organizations, starting in early 2016 and continued into early 2017. Our private GReAT report on this activity pushed in February 2017, and a public report from another vendor described much of the same content almost seven months later as “Gayzer”. It appeared to be a parallel project to WhiteAtlas Turla, and maintained quirks like modular, well logged code with an elegant, professional RSA and 3DES encryption implementation and high quality code injection capabilities, but lots of immature and crude language and english mistakes. Clearly, english and maturity was not the developers’ native language. While WhiteBear is Turla related, it is interesting to compare to other ongoing development styles. Strings and code are crass. Debug and command strings i cunt waiting anymore #%d lights aint turnt off with #%d Not find process CMessageProcessingSystem::Receive_NO_CONNECT_TO_GAYZER CMessageProcessingSystem::Receive_TAKE_LAST_CONNECTION CMessageProcessingSystem::Send_TAKE_FIN Zebrocy custom crypto Summary: innovative .Net, AutoIT, Delphi, and powershell components are continually updated and deployed to new and old targets. Cryptography ranges from built-in windows api to custom RC4-based ciphers. Strings and code are simple, innovative, and concise. Code: Targeting Overlap and a Pivot to Asia News headlines repeatedly trumpet Sofacy’s foray into Western targets in the US and Europe, especially those connected with NATO. But these efforts only tell a portion of the Sofacy story. Delineating groups and activity can be messy, and there appears to be overlap in targeting efforts across varying groups in central and east asia throughout 2017 and into 2018. Sofacy has been heavily interested in military and foreign affairs organizations here, resulting in multiple overlapped and competing targeting scenarios: Mosquito Turla and Zebrocy clusters – Zebrocy clusters targeting diplomatic and commercial organizations within Europe and Asia that match Mosquito targeting profiling SPLM overlap with traditional Turla – often Turla precedes SPLM deployments SPLM overlap with Zebrocy – Zebrocy often precedes SPLM deployments SPLM overlap with Danti Currently, Sofacy targets large air-defense related commercial organizations in China with SPLM, and moves Zebrocy focus across Armenia, Turkey, Kazahkstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Mongolia, China, and Japan. A previous, removed, report from another vendor claimed non-specific information about the groups’ interest in Chinese universities, but that report has been removed – most likely detections were related to students’ and researchers’ scanning known collected samples and any “incidents” remain unconfirmed and unknown. On the other hand, this Chinese conglomerate designs and manufactures aerospace and air defense technologies, among many other enterprises. And here, an interest in military technologies is certainly within Sofacy purview. So, even more interesting than the shift eastward and other targeting overlap, is that the specific target system in China was previously a Grey Lambert target. The Sofacy modules at this system appeared to never touch disk, and resemble the Linux Fysbis code. Only one maintained the Filesystem.dll code, while another maintained ProcessRetranslator.dll code. However, it is unusual that a full SPLM backdoor was not detected on this system, nor was any powershell loader script. Because the injection source remains unidentified on such a unique system, we might speculate on what is going on here: Sofacy attackers had recorded a previous Grey Lambert remote session and replayed the communication after discovering this host, essentially compromising the Grey Lambert module on the system to gain access and later injecting SPLM modules Grey Lambert attackers inserted false flag and reduced SPLM modules a new and unrecognized, full variant of SPLM attempted to inject module code into memory and deleted itself an unknown new powershell script or legitimate but vulnerable web app was exploited to load and execute this unusual SPLM code In all likelihood, the last option is accurate. Conclusion Sofacy is such a large, active group that appears to maintain multiple sub-groups and efforts that all fit under the Sofacy “umbrella”. Sometimes, they share infrastructure, but more often they do not share infrastructure and appear to compete for access within targets. Either way, the group’s consistent activity throughout central and eastern asia seems to be poorly represented in the public discussion. SPLM did not change in substantial ways for several years, and now it is being split up and used for just functional modules. And much of the malware being deployed by Sofacy is quickly changed from C/C++ to .Net to powershell. Other open source and semi-legitimate pen-testing tools like nbtscan and powercat are being used for mapping available resources and lateral movement as well. It is easy to expect deliberate changes within this group in 2018, with even more .Net, Delphi, and powershell ports of various tools appearing at Sofacy targets throughout the year. Technical Appendix Early 2018 Reference Set SPLM 452ed4c80c1d20d111a1dbbd99d649d5 ZEBROCY efd8a516820c44ddbf4cc8ed7f30df9c ff0e4f31a6b18b676b9518d4a748fed1 GAMEFISH bd3e9f7e65e18bb9a7c4ff8a8aa3a784 GREY LAMBERT 86146d38b738d5bfaff7e85a23dcc53e GREYWARE/PEN-TESTING NBTSCAN f01a9a2d1e31332ed36c1a4d2839f412
Sofacy, also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, and Tsar Team, is a highly active and prolific APT . From their high volume 0day deployment to their innovative and broad malware set, Sofacy is one of the top groups that we monitor, report, and protect against. 2017 was not any different in this regard. Our private reports subscription customers receive a steady stream of YARA , IOC, and reports on Sofacy, our most reported APT for the year. This high level of cyber-espionage activity goes back years. In 2011-2012, the group used a relatively tiny implant (known as “Sofacy” or SOURFACE) as their first stage malware, which at the time had similarities with the old Miniduke implants. This made us believe the two groups were connected, although it looks they split ways at a certain point, with the original Miniduke group switching to the CosmicDuke implant in 2014. The division in malware was consistent and definitive at that point. In 2013, the Sofacy group expanded their arsenal and added more backdoors and tools, including CORESHELL, SPLM (aka Xagent, aka CHOPSTICK), JHUHUGIT (which is built with code from the Carberp sources), AZZY (aka ADVSTORESHELL, NETUI, EVILTOSS, and spans across 4-5 generations) and a few others. We’ve seen quite a few versions of these implants, which were relatively widespread at some point or still are. In 2015 we noticed another wave of attacks which took advantage of a new release of the AZZY implant, largely undetected by antivirus products. The new wave of attacks included a new generation of USB stealers deployed by Sofacy, with initial versions dating to February 2015. It appeared to be geared exclusively towards high profile targets. Sofacy’s reported presence in the DNC network alongside APT29 brought possibly the highest level of public attention to the group’s activities in 2016, especially when data from the compromise was leaked and “weaponized”. And later 2016, their focus turned towards the Olympics’ and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS), when individuals and servers in these organizations were phished and compromised. In a similar vein with past CyberBerkut activity, attackers hid behind anonymous activist groups like “anonpoland”, and data from victimized organizations were similarly leaked and “weaponized”. This write-up will survey notables in the past year of 2017 Sofacy activity, including their targeting, technology, and notes on their infrastructure. No one research group has 100% global visibility, and our collected data is presented accordingly. Here, external APT28 reports on 2017 Darkhotel -style activity in Europe and Dealer’s Choice spearphishing are of interest. From where we sit, 2017 Sofacy activity starts with a heavy focus on NATO and Ukrainian partners, coinciding with lighter interest in Central Asian targets, and finishing the second half of the year with a heavy focus on Central Asian targets and some shift further East. Dealer’s Choice The beginning of 2017 began with a slow cleanup following the Dealer’s Choice campaign, with technical characteristics documented by our colleagues at Palo Alto in several stages at the end of 2016. The group spearphished targets in several waves with Flash exploits leading to their carberp based JHUHUGIT downloaders and further stages of malware. It seems that many folks did not log in and pull down their emails until Jan 2017 to retrieve the Dealer’s Choice spearphish. Throughout these waves, we observed that the targets provided connection, even tangential, to Ukraine and NATO military and diplomatic interests. In multiple cases, Sofacy spoofs the identity of a target, and emails a spearphish to other targets of interest. Often these are military or military-technology and manufacturing related, and here, the DealersChoice spearphish is again NATO related: The global reach that coincided with this focus on NATO and the Ukraine couldn’t be overstated. Our KSN data showed spearphishing targets geolocated across the globe into 2017. AM, AZ, FR, DE, IQ, IT, KG, MA, CH, UA, US, VN DealersChoice emails, like the one above, that we were able to recover from third party sources provided additional targeting insight, and confirmed some of the targeting within our KSN data: TR, PL, BA, AZ, KR, LV, GE, LV, AU, SE, BE 0day Deployment(s) Sofacy kicked off the year deploying two 0day in a spearphish document, both a Microsoft Office encapsulated postscript type confusion exploit (abusing CVE-2017-0262 ) and an escalation of privilege use-after-free exploit (abusing CVE-2017-0263 ). The group attempted to deploy this spearphish attachment to push a small 30kb backdoor known as GAMEFISH to targets in Europe at the beginning of 2017. They took advantage of the Syrian military conflict for thematic content and file naming “Trump’s_Attack_on_Syria_English.docx”. Again, this deployment was likely a part of their focus on NATO targets. Light SPLM deployment in Central Asia and Consistent Infrastructure Meanwhile in early-to-mid 2017, SPLM/CHOPSTICK/XAgent detections in Central Asia provided a glimpse into ongoing focus on ex-Soviet republics in Central Asia. These particular detections are interesting because they indicate an attempted selective 2nd stage deployment of a backdoor maintaining filestealer, keylogger, and remoteshell functionality to a system of interest. As the latest revision of the backdoor, portions of SPLM didn’t match previous reports on SPLM/XAgent while other similarities were maintained. SPLM 64-bit modules already appeared to be at version 4 of the software by May of the year. Targeting profiles included defense related commercial and military organizations, and telecommunications. Targeting included TR, KZ, AM, KG, JO, UK, UZ Heavy Zebrocy deployments Since mid-November 2015, the threat actor referred to as “Sofacy” or “APT28” has been utilizing a unique payload and delivery mechanism written in Delphi and AutoIT. We collectively refer to this package and related activity as “Zebrocy” and had written a few reports on its usage and development by June 2017 – Sofacy developers modified and redeployed incremented versions of the malware. The Zebrocy chain follows a pattern: spearphish attachment -> compiled Autoit script (downloader) -> Zebrocy payload. In some deployments, we observed Sofacy actively developing and deploying a new package to a much smaller, specific subset of targets within the broader set. Targeting profiles, spearphish filenames, and lures carry thematic content related to visa applications and scanned images, border control administration, and various administrative notes. Targeting appears to be widely spread across the Middle East, Europe, and Asia: Business accounting practices and standards Science and engineering centers Industrial and hydrochemical engineering and standards/certification Ministry of foreign affairs Embassies and consulates National security and intelligence agencies Press services Translation services NGO – family and social service Ministry of energy and industry We identified new MSIL components deployed by Zebrocy. While recent Zebrocy versioning was 7.1, some of the related Zebrocy modules that drop file-stealing MSIL modules we call Covfacy were v7.0. The components were an unexpected inclusion in this particular toolset. For example, one sent out to a handful of countries identifies network drives when they are added to target systems, and then RC4-like-encrypts and writes certain file metadata and contents to a local path for later exfiltration. The stealer searches for files 60mb and less with these extensions: .doc .docx .xls .xlsx .ppt .pptx .exe .zip .rar At execution, it installs an application-defined Windows hook. The hook gets windows messages indicating when a network drive has been attached. Upon adding a network drive, the hook calls its “RecordToFile” file stealer method. Zebrocy spearphishing targets: AF, AM, AU, AZ, BD, BE, CN, DE, ES, FI, GE, IL, IN, JO, KW, KG, KZ, LB, LT, MN, MY, NL, OM, PK, PO, SA, ZA, SK, SE, CH, TJ, TM, TR, UA, UAE, UK, US, UZ SPLM deployment in Central Asia SPLM/CHOPSTICK components deployed throughout 2017 were native 64-bit modular C++ Windows COM backdoors supporting http over fully encrypted TLSv1 and TLSv1.2 communications, mostly deployed in the second half of 2017 by Sofacy. Earlier SPLM activity deployed 32-bit modules over unencrypted http (and sometimes smtp) sessions. In 2016 we saw fully functional, very large SPLM/X-Agent modules supporting OS X. The executable module continues to be part of a framework supporting various internal and external components communicating over internal and external channels, maintaining slightly morphed encryption and functionality per deployment. Sofacy selectively used SPLM/CHOPSTICK modules as second stage implants to high interest targets for years now. In a change from previous compilations, the module was structured and used to inject remote shell, keylogger, and filesystem add-ons into processes running on victim systems and maintaining functionality that was originally present within the main module. The newer SPLM modules are deployed mostly to Central Asian based targets that may have a tie to NATO in some form. These targets include foreign affairs government organizations both localized and abroad, and defense organizations’ presence localized, located in Europe and also located in Afghanistan. One outlier SPLM target profile within our visibility includes an audit and consulting firm in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Minor changes and updates to the code were released with these deployments, including a new mutex format and the exclusive use of encrypted HTTP communications over TLS. The compiled code itself already is altered per deployment in multiple subtle ways, in order to stymie identification and automated analysis and accommodate targeted environments. Strings (c2 domains and functionality, error messages, etc) are custom encrypted per deployment. Targets: TR, KZ, BA, TM, AF, DE, LT, NL SPLM/CHOPSTICK/XAgent Modularity and Infrastructure This subset of SPLM/CHOPSTICK activity leads into several small surprises that take us into 2018, to be discussed in further detail at SAS 2018. The group demonstrates malleability and innovation in maintaining and producing familiar SPLM functionality, but the pragmatic and systematic approach towards producing undetected or difficult-to-detect malware continues. Changes in the second stage SPLM backdoor are refined, making the code reliably modular. Infrastructure Notes Sofacy set up and maintained multiple servers and c2 for varying durations, registering fairly recognizable domains with privacy services, registrars that accept bitcoin, fake phone numbers, phony individual names, and 1 to 1 email address to domain registration relationships. Some of this activity and patterns were publicly disclosed, so we expect to see more change in their process in 2018. Also, throughout the year and in previous years, researchers began to comment publicly on Sofacy’s fairly consistent infrastructure setup. As always, attackers make mistakes and give away hints about what providers and registrars they prefer. It’s interesting to note that this version of SPLM implements communications that are fully encrypted over HTTPS. As an example, we might see extraneous data in their SSL/TLS certificates that give away information about their provider or resources. Leading up to summer 2017, infrastructure mostly was created with PDR and Internet Domain Service BS Corp, and their resellers. Hosting mostly was provided at Fast Serv Inc and resellers, in all likelihood related to bitcoin payment processing. Accordingly, the server side certificates appear to be generated locally on VPS hosts that exclusively are paid for at providers with bitcoin merchant processing. One certificate was generated locally on what appeared to be a HP-UX box, and another was generated on “8569985.securefastserver[.]com” with an email address “root@8569985.securefastserver[.]com”, as seen here for their nethostnet[.]com domain. This certificate configuration is ignored by the malware. In addition to other ip data, this data point suggested that Qhoster at https://www.qhoster[.]com was a VPS hosting reseller of choice at the time. It should be noted that the reseller accepted Alfa Click, PayPal, Payza, Neteller, Skrill, WebMoney, Perfect Money, Bitcoin, Litecoin, SolidTrust Pay, CashU, Ukash, OKPAY, EgoPay, paysafecard, Alipay, MG, Western Union, SOFORT Banking, QIWI, Bank transfer for payment. Conclusion Sofacy, one of the most active APT we monitor, continues to spearphish their way into targets, reportedly widely phishes for credentials, and infrequently participates in server side activity (including host compromise with BeEF deployment , for example). KSN visibility and detections suggests a shift from their early 2017 high volume NATO spearphish targeting towards the middle east and Central Asia, and finally moving their focus further east into late 2017. Their operational security is good. Their campaigns appear to have broken out into subsets of activity and malware involving GAMEFISH, Zebrocy, and SPLM, to name a few. Their evolving and modified SPLM/CHOPSTICK/XAgent code is a long-standing part of Sofacy activity, however much of it is changing. We’ll cover more recent 2018 change in their targeting and the malware itself at SAS 2018 . With a group like Sofacy, once their attention is detected on a network, it is important to review logins and unusual administrator access on systems, thoroughly scan and sandbox incoming attachments, and maintain two factor authentication for services like email and vpn access. In order to identify their presence, not only can you gain valuable insight into their targeting from intelligence reports and gain powerful means of detections with hunting tools like YARA, but out-of-band processing with a solution like KATA is important. Technical Appendix Related md5 8f9f697aa6697acee70336f66f295837 1a4b9a6b321da199aa6d10180e889313 842454b48f5f800029946b1555fba7fc d4a5d44184333442f5015699c2b8af28 1421419d1be31f1f9ea60e8ed87277db b1d1a2c64474d2f6e7a5db71ccbafa31 953c7321c4959655fdd53302550ce02d 57601d717fcf358220340675f8d63c8a 02b79c468c38c4312429a499fa4f6c81 85cd38f9e2c9397a18013a8921841a04 f8e92d8b5488ea76c40601c8f1a08790 66b4fb539806ce27be184b6735584339 e8e1fcf757fe06be13bead43eaa1338c 953c7321c4959655fdd53302550ce02d aa2aac4606405d61c7e53140d35d7671 85cd38f9e2c9397a18013a8921841a04 57601d717fcf358220340675f8d63c8a 16e1ca26bc66e30bfa52f8a08846613d f8e92d8b5488ea76c40601c8f1a08790 b137c809e3bf11f2f5d867a6f4215f95 237e6dcbc6af50ef5f5211818522c463 88009adca35560810ec220544e4fb6aa 2163a33330ae5786d3e984db09b2d9d2 02b79c468c38c4312429a499fa4f6c81 842454b48f5f800029946b1555fba7fc d4a5d44184333442f5015699c2b8af28 b88633376fbb144971dcb503f72fd192 8f9f697aa6697acee70336f66f295837 b6f77273cbde76896a36e32b0c0540e1 1a4b9a6b321da199aa6d10180e889313 1421419d1be31f1f9ea60e8ed87277db 1a4b9a6b321da199aa6d10180e889313 9b10685b774a783eabfecdb6119a8aa3 aa34fb2e5849bff4144a1c98a8158970 aced5525ba0d4f44ffd01c4db2730a34 b1d1a2c64474d2f6e7a5db71ccbafa31 b924ff83d9120d934bb49a7a2e3c4292 cdb58c2999eeda58a9d0c70f910d1195 d4a5d44184333442f5015699c2b8af28 d6f2bf2066e053e58fe8bcd39cb2e9ad 34dc9a69f33ba93e631cd5048d9f2624 1c6f8eba504f2f429abf362626545c79 139c9ac0776804714ebe8b8d35a04641 e228cd74103dc069663bb87d4f22d7d5 bed5bc0a8aae2662ea5d2484f80c1760 8c3f5f1fff999bc783062dd50357be79 5882a8dd4446abd137c05d2451b85fea 296c956fe429cedd1b64b78e66797122 82f06d7157dd28a75f1fbb47728aea25 9a975e0ddd32c0deef1318c485358b20 529424eae07677834a770aaa431e6c54 4cafde8fa7d9e67194d4edd4f2adb92b f6b2ef4daf1b78802548d3e6d4de7ba7 ede5d82bb6775a9b1659dccb699fadcb 116d2fc1665ce7524826a624be0ded1c 20ff290b8393f006eaf4358f09f13e99 4b02dfdfd44df3c88b0ca8c2327843a4 c789ec7537e300411d523aef74407a5e 0b32e65caf653d77cab2a866ee2d9dbc 27faa10d1bec1a25f66e88645c695016 647edddf61954822ddb7ab3341f9a6c5 2f04b8eb993ca4a3d98607824a10acfb 9fe3a0fb3304d749aeed2c3e2e5787eb 62deab0e5d61d6bf9e0ba83d9e1d7e2b 86b607fe63c76b3d808f84969cb1a781 f62182cf0ab94b3c97b0261547dfc6cf 504182aaa5575bb38bf584839beb6d51 d79a21970cad03e22440ea66bd85931f Related domains nethostnet[.]com hostsvcnet[.]com etcrem[.]net movieultimate[.]com newfilmts[.]com fastdataexchange[.]org liveweatherview[.]com analyticsbar[.]org analyticstest[.]net lifeofmentalservice[.]com meteost[.]com righttopregnantpower[.]com kiteim[.]org adobe-flash-updates[.]org generalsecurityscan[.]com globalresearching[.]org lvueton[.]com audiwheel[.]com online-reggi[.]com fsportal[.]net netcorpscanprotect[.]com mvband[.]net mvtband[.]net viters[.]org treepastwillingmoment[.]com sendmevideo[.]org satellitedeluxpanorama[.]com ppcodecs[.]com encoder-info[.]tk wmdmediacodecs[.]com postlkwarn[.]com shcserv[.]com versiontask[.]com webcdelivery[.]com miropc[.]org securityprotectingcorp[.]com uniquecorpind[.]com appexsrv[.]net adobeupgradeflash[.]com
How serious, really, is the danger presented by exploits? The recent leak of an exploit toolset allegedly used by the infamous Equation Group suggests it’s time to revisit that question. Several zero-days, as well as a bunch of merely ‘severe’ exploits apparently used in-the-wild were disclosed, and it is not yet clear whether this represents the full toolset or whether there’s more to come, related to either Equation or another targeted threat actor. Of course, Equation Group is not the first, and is certainly not the only sophisticated targeted attacker to use stealthy, often zero-day exploits in its activity. Today we are publishing an overview of the exploit threat landscape. Using our own telemetry data and intelligence reports as well as publically available information, we’ve looked at the top vulnerabilities and applications exploited by attackers. We have examined them from two equally important perspectives. The first part of the report summarises the top exploits targeting all users in 2015-2016, and the most vulnerable applications. The second part considers the vulnerabilities exploited between 2010 and 2016 by significant targeted threat actors reported on by Kaspersky Lab: that’s 35 actors and campaigns in total. This report focuses on attacks using client-side exploits and does not include data on attacks using server-side exploits. Key findings on exploits targeting all users in 2015-2016: In 2016 the number of attacks with exploits increased 24.54%, to 702,026,084 attempts to launch an exploit. 4,347,966 users were attacked with exploits in 2016 which is 20.85% less than in the previous year. The number of corporate users who encountered an exploit at least once increased 28.35% to reach 690,557, or 15.76% of the total amount of users attacked with exploits. Browsers, Windows, Android and Microsoft Office were the applications exploited most often – 69.8% of users encountered an exploit for one of these applications at least once in 2016. In 2016, more than 297,000 users worldwide were attacked by unknown exploits (zero-day and heavily obfuscated known exploits). 2015-2016 witnessed a number of positive developments in the exploit threat landscape. For example, two very dangerous and effective exploit kits – Angler (XXX) and Neutrino, left the underground market, depriving cybercriminals community of a very comprehensive set of tools created to hack computers remotely. A number of bug bounty initiatives aimed at highlighting dangerous security issues were launched or extended. Together with the ever-increasing efforts of software vendors to fix new vulnerabilities, this significantly increased the cost to cybercriminals of developing new exploits. A clear victory for the infosec community that has resulted in a drop of just over 20% in the number of private users attacked with exploits: from 5.4 million in 2015 to 4.3 million in 2016. However, alongside this welcome decline, we’ve registered an increase in the number of corporate users targeted by attacks involving exploits. In 2016, the number of attacks rose by 28.35% to reach more than 690,000, or 15.76% of the total amount of users attacked with exploits. In the same year, more than 297,000 users worldwide were attacked by unknown exploits. These attacks were blocked by our Automatic Exploit Prevention technology, created to detect this type of exploits. Key findings on exploits used by targeted attackers 2010 -2016: Overall, targeted attackers and campaigns reported on by Kaspersky Lab in the years 2010 to 2016 appear to have held, used and re-used more than 80 vulnerabilities. Around two-thirds of the vulnerabilities tracked were used by more than one threat actor. Sofacy, also known as APT28 and Fancy Bear seems to have made use of a staggering 25 vulnerabilities, including at least six, if not more zero-days. The Equation Group is not far behind, with approximately 17 vulnerabilities in its arsenal, of which at least eight were zero-days, according to public data and Kaspersky Lab’s own intelligence. Russian-speaking targeted attack actors take three of the top four places in terms of vulnerability use (the exception being Equation Group in second place), with other English- and Chinese-speaking threat actors further down the list. Once made public, a vulnerability can become even more dangerous: grabbed and repurposed by big threat actors within hours. Targeted attackers often exploit the same vulnerabilities as general attackers – there are notable similarities between the list of top vulnerabilities used by targeted threat actors in 2010-2016, and those used in all attacks in 2015-2016. When looking more closely at the applications used by targeted threat actors to mount exploit-based attacks, we weren’t surprised to discover that Windows, Flash and Office top the list. Applications and Operation Systems most often exploited by targeted attack groups. Moreover, the recent leak of multiple exploits allegedly belonging to the Equation cyberespionage group highlighted another known but often overlooked truth: the life of an exploit doesn’t end with the release of a security patch designed to fix the vulnerability being exploited. Our research suggests that threat actors are still actively and successfully exploiting vulnerabilities patched almost a decade ago – as can be seen in the chart below: Everyone loves an exploit Exploits are an effective delivery tool for malicious payloads and this means they are in high demand among malicious users, whether they are cybercriminal groups, or targeted cyberespionage and cybersabotage actors. To take just one example, when we looked at our most recent threat statistics we found that exploits to CVE-2010-2568 (used in the notorious Stuxnet campaign) still rank first in terms of the number of users attacked. Almost a quarter of all users who encountered any exploit threat in 2016 were attacked with exploits to this vulnerability. Conclusion and Advice The conclusion is a simple one: even if a malicious user doesn’t have access to expensive zero-days, the chances are high that they’d succeed with exploits to old vulnerabilities because there are many systems and devices out there that have not yet been updated. Even though developers of popular software invest huge resources into finding and eliminating bugs in their products and exploit mitigation techniques, for at least the foreseeable future the challenge of vulnerabilities will remain. In order to protect your personal or business data from attacks via software exploits, Kaspersky Lab experts advise the following: Keep the software installed on your PC up to date, and enable the auto-update feature if it is available. Wherever possible, choose a software vendor which demonstrates a responsible approach to a vulnerability problem. Check if the software vendor has its own bug bounty program. If you are managing a network of PCs, use patch management solutions that allow for the centralized updating of software on all endpoints under your control. Conduct regular security assessments of the organization’s IT infrastructure. Educate your personnel on social engineering as this method is often used to make a victim open a document or a link infected with an exploit. Use security solutions equipped with specific exploit prevention mechanisms or at least behavior-based detection technologies Give preference to vendors which implement a multilayered approach to protection against cyberthreats, including exploits. Further details on exploits used in attacks in 2015 and 2016, as well as by the big targeted threat actors over the last six years – and Kaspersky Lab guidance on how to address the threat they present, can be found in the full report.
Sofacy (also known as “Fancy Bear”, “Sednit”, “STRONTIUM” and “APT28”) is an advanced threat group that has been active since around 2008, targeting mostly military and government entities worldwide, with a focus on NATO countries. More recently, we have also seen an increase in activity targeting Ukraine. Back in 2011-2012, the group used a relatively tiny implant (known as “Sofacy” or SOURFACE) as its first stage malware. The implant shared certain similarities with the old Miniduke implants . This led us to believe the two groups were connected, at least to begin with, although it appears they parted ways in 2014, with the original Miniduke group switching to the CosmicDuke implant . At some point during 2013, the Sofacy group expanded its arsenal and added more backdoors and tools, including CORESHELL, SPLM (aka Xagent, aka CHOPSTICK), JHUHUGIT (which is built with code from the Carberp sources), AZZY (aka ADVSTORESHELL, NETUI, EVILTOSS, and spans across four to five generations) and a few others. We’ve seen quite a few versions of these implants and they were relatively widespread for a time. #Sofacy group has been active since 2008, targeting mostly military and government entities in NATO countries Tweet Earlier this year, we noticed a new release of the AZZY implant which, at the time, was largely undetected by anti-malware products. We observed several waves of attacks using this version, most recently in October. The new waves of attacks also included a new generation of USB stealers deployed by the Sofacy actor, with the first versions dating back to February 2015, and which appear to be geared exclusively towards high profile targets. Sofacy’s August 2015 attack wave In the months leading up to August, the Sofacy group launched several waves of attacks relying on zero-day exploits in Microsoft Office, Oracle Sun Java, Adobe Flash Player and Windows itself. For instance, its JHUHUGIT implant was delivered through a Flash zero-day and used a Windows EoP exploit to break out of the sandbox. The JHUHUGIT implant became a relatively popular first stage for the Sofacy attacks and was used again with a Java zero-day (CVE-2015-2590) in July 2015. While the JHUHUGIT (and more recently, “JKEYSKW”) implant used in most of the Sofacy attacks, high profile victims are being targeted with another first level implant, representing the latest evolution of their AZZYTrojan. Two recurring characteristics of the #Sofacy group are speed and the use of multi-backdoor packages Tweet The first versions of the new AZZY implant appeared in August of this year. During a high profile incident we investigated, our products successfully detected and blocked a “standard” Sofacy “AZZY” sample that was used to target a range of defense contractors. The sample used in this attack (md5 A96F4B8AC7AA9DBF4624424B7602D4F7, compiled July 29th, 2015) was a pretty standard Sofacy x64 AZZY implant, which has the internal name “advshellstore.dll”. Interestingly, the fact that the attack was blocked didn’t appear to stop the Sofacy team. Just an hour and a half later they had compiled and delivered another AZZY x64 backdoor (md5: 9D2F9E19DB8C20DC0D20D50869C7A373, compiled August 4th, 2015). This was no longer detectable with static signatures by our product. However, it was detected dynamically by the host intrusion prevention subsystem when it appeared in the system and was executed. This recurring, blindingly-fast Sofacy attack attracted our attention as neither sample was delivered through a zero-day vulnerability — instead, they appeared to be downloaded and installed by another malware. This separate malware was installed by an unknown attack as “ AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\msdeltemp.dll ” (md5: CE8B99DF8642C065B6AF43FDE1F786A3). The top level malware, CE8B99DF8642C065B6AF43FDE1F786A3 (named by its authors “msdeltemp.dll” according to internal strings, and compiled July 28th, 2015) is a rare type of the Sofacy AZZY implant. It has been modified to drop a separate C&C helper, (md5: 8C4D896957C36EC4ABEB07B2802268B9) as “ tf394kv.dll “. The dropped “ tf394kv.dll ” file is an external C&C communications library, compiled on July 24th, 2015 and used by the main backdoor for all Internet-based communications. Decrypted configuration block of the C&C helper library “ tf394kv.dll “ This code modification marks an unusual departure from the typical AZZY backdoors, with its C&C communication functions moved to an external DLL file. In the past, the Sofacy developers modified earlier AZZY backdoors to use a C&C server encoded in the registry, instead of storing it in the malware itself, so this code modularisation follows the same line of thinking. In addition to the new AZZY backdoors with side-DLL for C&C, we observed a new set of data-theft modules deployed against victims by the Sofacy group. Among the most popular modern defense mechanisms against APTs are air-gaps — isolated network segments without Internet access, where sensitive data is stored. In the past, we’ve seen groups such as Equation and Flame use malware to steal data from air-gapped networks. The Sofacy group uses such tools as well. The first versions of these new USB stealer modules appeared around February 2015 and the latest appear to have been compiled in May 2015. Older versions of these USBSTEALER modules were previously described by our colleagues from ESET . One example of the new Sofacy USBSTEALER modules is 8b238931a7f64fddcad3057a96855f6c, which is named internally as msdetltemp.dll. This data theft module appears to have been compiled in May 2015 and is designed to watch removable drives and collect files from them, depending on a set of rules defined by the attackers. The stolen data is copied into a hidden directory as “ %MYPICTURES%\%volume serial number% “, from where it can be exfiltrated by the attackers using one of the AZZY implants. More details on the new USB stealers are available in the section on technical analysis. Conclusions Over the last year, the Sofacy group has increased its activity almost tenfold when compared to previous years, becoming one of the most prolific, agile and dynamic threat actors in the arena. This activity spiked in July 2015, when the group dropped two completely new exploits, an Office and Java zero-day. At the beginning of August, Sofacy began a new wave of attacks, focusing on defense-related targets. As of November 2015, this wave of attacks is ongoing. The attackers deploy a rare modification of the AZZY backdoor, which is used for the initial reconnaissance. Once a foothold is established, they try to upload more backdoors, USB stealers as well as other hacking tools such as “Mimikatz” for lateral movement. Over the last year, the #Sofacy group has increased its activity almost tenfold, that spiked in July 2015 Tweet Two recurring characteristics of the Sofacy group that we keep seeing in its attacks are speed and the use of multi-backdoor packages for extreme resilience. In the past, the group used droppers that installed both the SPLM and AZZY backdoors on the same machine. If one of them was detected, the other one provided the attacker with continued access. As usual, the best defense against targeted attacks is a multi-layered approach. Combine traditional anti-malware technologies with patch management, host intrusion detection and, ideally, whitelisting and default-deny strategies. According to a study by the Australian DSD, 85% of the targeted attacks analysed could have been stopped by four simple defense strategies . While it’s impossible to achieve 100% protection, in practice and most cases all you have to do is increase your defenses to the point where it becomes too expensive for the attacker – who will just give up and move on to other targets. More information about the Sofacy group is available to customers of Kaspersky Intelligent Services . Is there a ‘silver bullet’ to protect yourself against Sofacy? Learn more on Kaspersky Business blog . Technical analysis Internal name: DWN_DLL_MAIN.dll File format: PE32 DLL MD5: ce8b99df8642c065b6af43fde1f786a3 Linker version: 11.0, Microsoft Visual Studio Linker timestamp: 2015.07.28 13:05:20 (GMT) Exported functions: 10003F30: ?Applicate@@YGHXZ 10004270: ?SendDataToServer_2@@YGHPAEKEPAPAEPAK@Z 10003F60: ?k@@YGPAUHINSTANCE__@@PBD@Z The library starts its main worker thread from the DllMain function. Most of the strings inside the module are encrypted with a homebrew XOR-based algorithm. In addition to that, API function names are reversed, presumably to avoid detection in memory. Once started, the code in the main thread resolves the basic API functions it needs and loads an additional library from the following location: “%TEMP%\tf394kv.dll” . If this file is not present, it is recreated from a hardcoded encrypted array inside the body of the DLL. Next, the module enters an infinite loop. Every five minutes it collects basic system information and sends it to the C2 server: Windows version number Hardcoded string “4.3” (the backdoor’s internal version number) List of running processes The main thread also spawns a separate thread for receiving new commands from the C2 servers. Every 10 minutes, it sends a new request to the server. The server is expected to send back executable code and one of the following commands: Write a new file “%LOCAL_APPDATA%\dllhost.exe” or “%TEMP%\dllhost.exe” and execute it, then delete the file Write a new file “%LOCAL_APPDATA%\sechost.dll” or “%TEMP%\sechost.dll” and call its first exported function using “rundll32.exe” or Windows API, then delete the file Run shellcode provided by the server in a new thread While processing the commands, the backdoor logs all errors and execution results. The module also reads the contents of the file “ %APPDATA%\chkdbg.log ” and appends it to the results. It then sends the aggregated log back to the C2 server. The module aborts the thread receiving C2 command after it fails to correctly execute commands more than six times in a row, i.e. if file or process creation fails. The export called “ k ” is a wrapper for the “LoadLibraryA” API function. The export called “ SendDataToServer_2 ” does exactly what the name means: it encrypts all collected data, encodes it using Base64 encoding and calls its additional library to send the data to the C2 server. The names of the C2 servers are hardcoded. Hardcoded C&C servers in the main module The two C&C’s hardcoded in the configuration block of the main binary are: intelnetservice[.]com intelsupport[.]net The export called “ Applicate ” runs a standard Windows application message loop until a “WM_ENDSESSION” message is received. It then terminates the main thread. Internal name: snd.dll File format: PE32 DLL MD5: 8c4d896957c36ec4abeb07b2802268b9 Linker version: 11.0, Microsoft Visual Studio Linker timestamp: 2015.07.24 12:07:27 (GMT) Exported functions: 10001580: Init 10001620: InternetExchange 10001650: SendData This external library implements a simple Wininet-based transport for the main module. The strings inside the binary are encrypted using 3DES and XOR and reversed. The DllMain function initializes the library and resolves all required Windows API functions. The “ Init ” export establishes connection to port 80 of a C2 server using Wininet API. The user agent string employed is “MSIE 8.0” . The “ SendData ” export sends a HTTP POST request using a hardcoded URI “ /store/ “. The reply, if its length is not equal to six and its contents do not contain “OK” is returned back to the caller. The “ InternetExchange ” export closes the established connection and frees associated handles. Sofacy AZZY 4.3 dropper analysis File format: PE32 EXE File size: 142,336 bytes MD5: c3ae4a37094ecfe95c2badecf40bf5bb Linker version: 11.0, Microsoft Visual Studio Linker timestamp: 2015.02.10 10:01:59 (GMT) Most of the strings and data in the file are encrypted using 3DES and XOR. The code makes use of the Windows Crypto API for 3DES and the decryption key is stored as a standard Windows PUBLICKEYSTRUC structure: Part of the decryption algorithm Header of one encrypted data buffer containing the hardcoded 3DES key First, it creates a new directory: “%LOCAL_APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows”. If the directory creation fails it tries to install into “%TEMP%” directory instead. Next it writes a hardcoded binary from its body to “msdeltemp.dll” into the target directory . If the file exists it then moves it to “__tmpdt.tmp” in the same directory and continues the installation. Sets file creation timestamp to that of “%SYSTEM%\sfc.dll” To ensure the dropped payload starts automatically on user log-in it creates the following registry key: [HKCU\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run] StartUpChekTemp=RUNDLL32.EXE “%path to msdeltemp.dll%”,#1 Next, it starts the dropped dll using the same command line: RUNDLL32.EXE “ %path to msdeltemp.dll% “,#1 Finally, the program removes itself by starting the following command: “cmd /c DEL %path to self% “ The MD5 of the dropped file is f6f88caf49a3e32174387cacfa144a89 Dropper payload – downloader DLL Internal name: msdetltemp.dll File format: PE32 DLL File size: 73 728 bytes MD5: f6f88caf49a3e32174387cacfa144a89 Linker version: 11.0, Microsoft Visual Studio Linker timestamp: 2015.02.10 07:20:02 (GMT) Exported functions: 10002B55: Applicate Most of the strings inside the binary are encrypted using a homebrew XOR-based algorithm and reversed. The library is an older version of the “DWN_DLL_MAIN.dll” (md5: ce8b99df8642c065b6af43fde1f786a3). The DllMain function is identical and starts the main thread; the “ Applicate ” function is identical to the one in the newer library. This version of the module does not rely on an external transport DLL for communicating with its C2 servers; instead it directly uses Wininet API functions. The module contains the following hardcoded C2 server names: drivres-update[.]info softupdates[.]info The module uses a hardcoded URL (“ /check/ “) for sending HTTP POST requests to its C2 servers. The server is expected to send back executable code and one of the following commands: Write a new file “%LOCAL_APPDATA%\svchost.exe” or “%TEMP%\svchost.exe” and execute it, then delete the file Write a new file “%LOCAL_APPDATA%\conhost.dll” or “%TEMP%\conhost.dll” and call its first exported function using “rundll32.exe” or Windows API, then delete the file Run shellcode provided by the server in a new thread File collection module (“USB Stealer”) Internal name: msdetltemp.dll (from resources) File size: 50,176 bytes File format: PE32 EXE MD5: 0369620eb139c3875a62e36bb7abdae8 Linker version: 10.0, Microsoft Visual Studio Linker timestamp: 2015.02.09 11:48:01 (GMT) Most of the strings inside the binary are encrypted using 3DES and XOR and reversed. The program creates the mutex “mtx” and an event named “WerTyQ34C”. Upon start, it creates a window with the class name “Hello” and title “Program”, subscribes for device arrival notifications for that window and enters a standard Windows message processing loop. The message processing function waits for the WM_DEVICECHANGE event and starts a new thread on its arrival. The module inspects every new disk volume attached to the system. For every disk it creates a “stash” directory in “% root stash directory location %\ %volume serial number in hex%” with attributes FILE_ATTRIBUTE_HIDDEN and FILE_ATTRIBUTE_SYSTEM. The root stash directory location may be read from the configuration file or set to the default location which is “%MYPICTURES%”. Then, it traverses the filesystem of the volume looking for files. Depending on the settings read from the configuration file, the scope may be narrowed to files with particular extensions and/or files created after a specified date. It is worth noting that if the source file location contains the string “System Volume Information\S-1-5-21-1315235578-283289242\”, then the file is deleted after copying to the “stash” directory. There are known related samples that are able to create such directories on removable drives, i.e. the sample with md5: 8cb08140ddb00ac373d29d37657a03cc. The configuration file is loaded from the same directory as the module and is expected t have a name “ NvCpld.dat “. It is a text file that may contain the following configuration parameters: Path – location of the root “stash” directory Ext – search for files with one of these extensions only Date – search for files not earlier than this date Internal name: NvCpld.dll (from export table), msdetltemp.dll (from resources), IGFSRVC.dll (from resources) File format: PE32 DLL File size: 76,288 bytes MD5s: 8b238931a7f64fddcad3057a96855f6c, ce151285e8f0e7b2b90162ba171a4b90 Linker version: 11.0, Microsoft Visual Studio Linker timestamps: 2015.05.29 11:20:32 (GMT), 2006.11.25 04:39:15 (GMT) Exported functions: 10002500: NvMswt 10002860: NvReg 10002880: NvStart 10002A80: NvStop This library is a newer version of the file collection module (md5: 0369620eb139c3875a62e36bb7abdae8) wrapped in a DLL file. There are two known variants of this module; they only differ in timestamp values and version information in the resource section. The DllMain function only decrypts the data structures and initializes Windows API pointers. The function “ NvMswt ” is a wrapper for the API function MsgWaitForMultipleObjects. The function “ NvReg ” is a wrapper for the API function RegisterClassW. The function “ NvStart ” is similar to the main function of the older module; it creates a window and enters the message loop waiting for device arrival notifications. The only difference introduced is that an event named “ WerTyQ34C ” can be signalled by the function “ NvStop ” to terminate the message loop and stop processing. Indicators of compromise: AZZY 4.3 installer: c3ae4a37094ecfe95c2badecf40bf5bb New generation (4.3) AZZY implants: ce8b99df8642c065b6af43fde1f786a3 f6f88caf49a3e32174387cacfa144a89 Dropped C&C helper DLL for AZZY 4.3: 8c4d896957c36ec4abeb07b2802268b9 File collectors / USB stealers: 0369620eb139c3875a62e36bb7abdae8 8b238931a7f64fddcad3057a96855f6c ce151285e8f0e7b2b90162ba171a4b90 f6f88caf49a3e32174387cacfa144a89 Stand-alone AZZY backdoors: a96f4b8ac7aa9dbf4624424b7602d4f7 9d2f9e19db8c20dc0d20d50869c7a373 C&C hostnames: drivres-update[.]info intelnetservice[.]com intelsupport[.]net softupdates[.]info Kaspersky Lab products detect the malware mentioned here with the following names: Trojan.Win32.Sofacy.al Trojan.Win32.Sofacy.be Trojan.Win32.Sofacy.bf Trojan.Win32.Sofacy.bg Trojan.Win32.Sofacy.bi Trojan.Win32.Sofacy.bj Trojan.Win64.Sofacy.q Trojan.Win64.Sofacy.s HEUR:Trojan.Win32.Generic
CozyDuke (aka CozyBear, CozyCar or “Office Monkeys”) is a precise attacker. Kaspersky Lab has observed signs of attacks against government organizations and commercial entities in the US, Germany, South Korea and Uzbekistan. In 2014, targets included the White House and the US Department of State, as believed. The operation presents several interesting aspects extremely sensitive high profile victims and targets evolving crypto and anti-detection capabilities strong malware functional and structural similarities mating this toolset to early MiniDuke second stage components, along with more recent CosmicDuke and OnionDuke components The actor often spearphishes targets with e-mails containing a link to a hacked website. Sometimes it is a high profile, legitimate site such as “diplomacy.pl”, hosting a ZIP archive. The ZIP archive contains a RAR SFX which installs the malware and shows an empty PDF decoy. In other highly successful runs, this actor sends out phony flash videos directly as email attachments. A clever example is “Office Monkeys LOL Video.zip”. The executable within not only plays a flash video, but drops and runs another CozyDuke executable. These videos are quickly passed around offices with delight while systems are infected in the background silently. Many of this APT’s components are signed with phony Intel and AMD digital certificates. Recent CozyDuke APT activity attracted significant attention in the news: Sources: State Dept. hack the ‘worst ever’ , CNN News, March 2015 White House computer network ‘hacked’ , BBC News, October 2014 Three Months Later, State Department Hasn’t Rooted Out Hackers , Wall Street Journal, February 2015 State Department shuts down its e-mail system amid concerns about hacking , Washington Post, November 2014 Let’s examine a smattering of representative CozyDuke files and data. There is much to their toolset. Office Monkeys dropper analysis CozyDuke droppers and spyware components often maintain fairly common characteristics, but these files’ functionality are modified in slight ways depending on the team’s needs. This rapid development and deployment is interesting. 68271df868f462c06e24a896a9494225, Office Monkeys LOL Video.zip Believe it or not, recipients in bulk run the file within: 95b3ec0a4e539efaa1faa3d4e25d51de, Office Monkeys (Short Flash Movie).exe This file in turn drops two executables to %temp%: 2aabd78ef11926d7b562fd0d91e68ad3, Monkeys.exe 3d3363598f87c78826c859077606e514, player.exe It first launches Monkeys.exe, playing a self-contained, very funny video of white-collar tie wearing chimpanzees working in a high rise office with a human colleague. It then launches player.exe, a CozyDuke dropper maintaining anti-detection techniques: 3d3363598f87c78826c859077606e514,player.exe,338kb,Trojan.Win32.CozyBear.v,CompiledOn:2014.07.02 21:13:33 Anti-detection and trojan functionality The file collects system information, and then invokes a WMI instance in the rootsecuritycenter namespace to identify security products installed on the system, meaning that this code was built for x86 systems, wql here: SELECT * FROM AntiVirusProduct SELECT * FROM FireWallProduct The code hunts for several security products to evade: CRYSTAL KASPERSKY SOPHOS DrWeb AVIRA COMODO Dragon In addition to the WMI/wql use, it also hunts through the “SOFTWAREMicrosoftWindowsCurrentVersionUninstall” registry key looking for security products to avoid. Following these checks, it drops several more malware files signed with the pasted AMD digital signature to a directory it creates. These files are stored within an 217kb encrypted cab file in the dropper’s resources under the name “A”. The cab file was encrypted and decrypted using a simple xor cipher with a rotating 16 byte key: x36x11xddx08xacx4bx72xf8x51x04x68x2ex3ex38x64x32. The cab file is decompressed and its contents are created on disk. These dropped files bundle functionality for both 64bit and 32bit Windows systems and are all located within one directory: C:Documents and SettingsuserApplication DataATI_Subsystem 6761106f816313394a653db5172dc487,amdhcp32.dll,54kb ← 32bit dll,CompiledOn:2014.07.02 21:13:24 d596827d48a3ff836545b3a999f2c3e3,aticaldd.dll,60kb ← 64bit dll,CompiledOn:2014.07.02 21:13:26 bc626c8f11ed753f33ad1c0fe848d898,atiumdag.dll,285kb ← 32bit dll, Trojan.Win32.CozyDuke.a, CompiledOn:2014.07.02 21:13:26 4152e79e3dbde55dcf3fc2014700a022,6kb,racss.dat The code copies rundll32.exe from windowssystem32 to its newly created %appdata%ATI_Subsystem subdirectory as “amdocl_as32.exe” alongside the three dll’s listed above. It runs atiumdag.dll with two parameter values, it’s only export and an arbitrary pid, i.e.: “C:Documents and SettingsuserApplication DataATI_Subsystemamdocl_as32.exe” “C:Documents and SettingsuserApplication DataATI_Subsystematiumdag.dll””, ADL2_ApplicationProfiles_System_Reload 1684″ This dll is built with anti-AV protections as well. However, it looks for a different but overlapping set, and the random duplication suggests that this component was cobbled together with its dropper, partly regionally based on target selection. K7 KASPERSKY AVG The code collects information about the system and xml formats this data prior to encryption for proper parsing: Finally, this process beacons to www.sanjosemaristas.com, which appears to be a site that has been compromised and misused multiple times in the past couple of years. hxxp://www.sanjosemaristas[.]com/app/index.php?{A01BA0AD-9BB3-4F38-B76B-A00AD11CBAAA}, providing the current network adapter’s service name GUID. It uses standard Win32 base cryptography functions to generate a CALG_RC4 session key to encrypt the collected data communications and POSTs it to the server. Executable-Signing Certificates Samples are usually signed with a fake certificate – we’ve seen two instances, one AMD and one Intel: Configuration files: Some of the malware uses an encrypted configuration file which is stored on disk as “racss.dat”. This is encrypted by RC4, using the key {0xb5, 0x78, 0x62, 0x52, 0x98, 0x3e, 0x24, 0xd7, 0x3b, 0xc6, 0xee, 0x7c, 0xb9, 0xed, 0x91, 0x62}. Here’s how it looks decrypted: Second stage malware and communications: The attackers send commands and new modules to be executed to the victims through the C&Cs. The C&C scripts store these temporarily until the victim next connects to retrieve local files. We’ve identified two such files: settings.db sdfg3d.db Here’s how such a database file appears: These are BASE64 encoded and use the same RC4 encryption key as the malware configuration. Decoding them resulted in the following payloads: 59704bc8bedef32709ab1128734aa846, ChromeUpdate.ex_ 5d8835982d8bfc8b047eb47322436c8a, cmd_task.dll e0b6f0d368c81a0fb197774d0072f759, screenshot_task.dll Decoding them also resulted in a set of tasking files maintaining agent commands and parameter values: conf.xml And a set of “reporting” files, maintaining stolen system “info”, error output, and “AgentInfo” output, from victim systems: DCOM_amdocl_ld_API_.raw Util_amdave_System_.vol Last_amdpcom_Subsystem_.max Data_amdmiracast_API_.aaf 7.txt screenshot_task.dll is a 32-bit dll used to take a screenshot of the full desktop window and save it as a bitmap in %temp%. The number of times the screenshot is repeated is configurable within the xml task file. cmd_task.dll is a 32-bit dll that maintains several primitives. It is used to create new processes, perform as a command line shell, and several other tasks. Each of these payloads is delivered together with a configuration file that explains how to run it, for instance: In another tasking, we notice a tracked victim: Attackers map a network drive use Microsoft OneDrive to run further tools: They copy down a base64 encoded document from Microsoft OneDrive to the victim system and decode it there: Not everything works as planned, so they maintain error reporting facility for the c2 communications: Furthermore, ChromeUpdate is a 64-bit executable (which appears to be a WEXTRACT package) that oddly drops a 32-bit Dll. Cache.dll is simply stored as a cabinet file in the ChromeUpdate’s resource section. ChromeUpdate.exe starts the file with “rundll32 cache.dll,ADB_Setup” Cache.dll analysis Cache.dll was written in C/C++ and built with a Microsoft compiler. Cache.dll code flow overview RC4 decrypt hardcoded c2 and urls resolve hidden function calls collect identifying victim system data encrypt collected data send stolen data to c2 and retrieve commands Cache.dll code details Structurally, “Cache.dll” is a fairly large backdoor at 425KB. It maintains both code and data in the raw, encrypted blobs of data to be decrypted and used at runtime, and hidden functionality that isn’t exposed until runtime. No pdb/debug strings are present in the code. It maintains eight exports, including DllMain: ADB_Add ADB_Cleanup ADB_Initnj ADB_Load ADB_Release ADB_Remove ADB_Setup ADB_Setup is a entry point that simply spawns another thread and waits for completion. Above, we see a new thread created with the start address of Cache.dll export “ADB_Load” by the initial thread. This exported function is passed control while the initial thread runs a Windows message loop. It first grabs an encrypted blob stored away in a global variable and pulls out 381 bytes of this encrypted data: The standard win32 api CryptDecrypt uses rc4 to decrypt this blob into a hardcoded c2, url path, and url parameters listed below with a simple 140-bit key “x8BxFFx55x8BxECx83xECx50xA1x84x18x03x68x33xC9x66xF7x45x10xE8x1Fx89x45xFCx8Bx45x14x56”. The code then decodes this set of import symbols and resolves addresses for its networking and data stealing functionality: InternetCloseHandle InternetReadFile HttpSendRequestA HttpOpenRequestA HttpQueryInfoA InternetConnectA InternetCrackUrlA InternetOpenA InternetSetOptionW GetAdaptersInfo Much like the prior office monkey “atiumdag.dll” component, this code collects identifying system information using standard win32 API calls: Computer name – GetComputerNameW User name – GetUserNameW Adapter GUID, ip address, mac address – GetAdaptersInfo Windows version – GetVersionExW It then uses the runtime resolved networking API calls to send the collected data back to a hardcoded c2 and set of urls. Cache.dll connectback urls: 209.200.83.43/ajax/links.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/api.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/index.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/error.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/profile.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/online.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/loader.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/search.php Observed user-agent string on the wire, but it’s dynamically generated based on the Windows system settings (retrieved using standard win32 api “ObtainUserAgentString”): “User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 6.0; Windows NT 5.1; SV1; .NET CLR 2.0.50727; .NET CLR 3.0.04506.648; .NET CLR 3.5.21022)” Communications with the CozyDuke C2 include key/value pairs passed as URL parameters. Observed keys that remind us of the Cosmicduke communications include: status= k= mode= ajax= name= subNodeId= nodeId= r= t= id= item= item_id= js= j= v= json= i= c= x= a= Connections with MiniDuke/CosmicDuke/OnionDuke: One of the second stage modules of CozyDuke/Cozy Bear, Show.dll, is particularly interesting because it appears to have been built onto the same platform as OnionDuke. Below we compare Show.dll with the OnionDuke sample MD5: c8eb6040fd02d77660d19057a38ff769. Both have exactly the same export tables and appear to be called internally “UserCache.dll”: This seems to indicate the authors of OnionDuke and CozyDuke / Cozy Bear are the same, or working together. Another interesting comparison of two other files matches a recent second stage tool from the CozyDuke attacks with a second stage component from other Miniduke/Onionduke attacks. 2e0361fd73f60c76c69806205307ccac, update.dll (MiniDuke), 425kb (internal name = “ UserCache.dll “) 9e3f3b5e9ece79102d257e8cf982e09e, cache.dll (CozyDuke), 425kb (internal name = “ UserCache.dll “) The two share identical export function names in their export directories, and the naming appears to be randomly assigned at compile time. The table below presents the function matches based on size data, but the calls, jmps and code all match as well. The contents of only one of these exports in update.dll has no match whatsoever in cache.dll. Unlike the atiumdag.dll file above, however, cache.dll and update.dll do not maintain anti-AV and anti-analysis functionality sets. Perhaps they plan to pair this stealer with another dropper that maintains the WMI anti-AV functionality. This rotating functionality seems representational for the set, along with other characteristics. Their custom backdoor components appear to slightly evolve over time, with modifications to anti-detection, cryptography, and trojan functionality changing per operation. This rapid development and deployment reminds us of the APT28/Sofacy toolset, especially the coreshell and chopstick components. We expect ongoing and further activity from this group in the near future and variations on the malware used in previous duke-ish incidents. For more information about MiniDuke, CosmicDuke and OnionDuke, please see References. Related MD5s 62c4ce93050e48d623569c7dcc4d0278, 2537.ex_ a5d6ad8ad82c266fda96e076335a5080, drop1.ex_ 93176df76e351b3ea829e0e6c6832bdf, drop1.pd_ 7688be226b946e231e0cd36e6b708d20, 8.zip fd8e27f820bdbdf6cb80a46c67fd978a, doc853.ex_ 93176df76e351b3ea829e0e6c6832bdf, doc853.pdf 9ad55b83f2eec0c19873a770b0c86a2f, reader_sl.ex_ f16dff8ec8702518471f637eb5313ab2 1.ex_ 8670710bc9477431a01a576b6b5c1b2a 93176df76e351b3ea829e0e6c6832bdf, droppedhppscan854.pdf f58a4369b8176edbde4396dc977c9008, droppedreader_sl.ex_ 83f57f0116a3b3d69ef7b1dbe9943801 b5553645fe819a93aafe2894da13dae7 acffb2823fc655637657dcbd25f35af8 1a42acbdb285a7fba17f95068822ea4e d543904651b180fd5e4dc1584e639b5e d7af9a4010c75af6756a603fd6aef5a4 93176df76e351b3ea829e0e6c6832bdf, 3852.pdf f2b05e6b01be3b6cb14e9068e7a66fc1, droppedreader_sl.ex_ 57a1f0658712ee7b3a724b6d07e97259, dropped3852.ex_ 93176df76e351b3ea829e0e6c6832bdf, 5463.pdf eb22b99d44223866e24872d80a4ddefd, dropped5463reader_sl.ex_ 90bd910ee161b71c7a37ac642f910059, dropped5463.ex_ 1a262a7bfecd981d7874633f41ea5de8 98a6484533fa12a9ba6b1bd9df1899dc 7f6bca4f08c63e597bed969f5b729c56 08709ef0e3d467ce843af4deb77d74d5 Related CozyDuke C&Cs: 121.193.130.170:443/wp-ajax.php 183.78.169.5:443/search.php 200.119.128.45:443/mobile.php 200.125.133.28:443/search.php 200.125.142.11:443/news.php 201.76.51.10:443/plugins/json.php 202.206.232.20:443/rss.php 202.76.237.216:443/search.php 203.156.161.49:443/plugins/twitter.php 208.75.241.246:443/msearch.php 209.40.72.2:443/plugins/fsearch.php 210.59.2.20:443/search.php 208.77.177.24:443/fsearch.php www.getiton.hants.org.uk:80/themes/front/img/ajax.php www.seccionpolitica.com.ar:80/galeria/index.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/links.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/api.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/index.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/error.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/profile.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/online.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/loader.php 209.200.83.43/ajax/search.php 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 121.193.130.170 : 443 / wp - ajax . php 183.78.169.5 : 443 / search . php 200.119.128.45 : 443 / mobile . php 200.125.133.28 : 443 / search . php 200.125.142.11 : 443 / news . php 201.76.51.10 : 443 / plugins / json . php 202.206.232.20 : 443 / rss . php 202.76.237.216 : 443 / search . php 203.156.161.49 : 443 / plugins / twitter . php 208.75.241.246 : 443 / msearch . php 209.40.72.2 : 443 / plugins / fsearch . php 210.59.2.20 : 443 / search . php 208.77.177.24 : 443 / fsearch . php www . getiton . hants . org . uk : 80 / themes / front / img / ajax . php www . seccionpolitica . com . ar : 80 / galeria / index . php 209.200.83.43 / ajax / links . php 209.200.83.43 / ajax / api . php 209.200.83.43 / ajax / index . php 209.200.83.43 / ajax / error . php 209.200.83.43 / ajax / profile . php 209.200.83.43 / ajax / online . php 209.200.83.43 / ajax / loader . php 209.200.83.43 / ajax / search . php Appendix: Parallel and Previous Research The MiniDuke Mystery: PDF 0-day Government Spy Assembler 0x29A Micro Backdoor , Securelist, Feb 2013 Miniduke is back: Nemesis Gemina and the Botgen Studio , Securelist, July 2014 MiniDuke 2 (CosmicDuke) , CrySyS, July 2014 COSMICDUKE Cosmu with a twist of MiniDuke [pdf] , F-Secure, September 2014 THE CASE OF THE MODIFIED BINARIES , Leviathan Security, October 2014 A word on CosmicDuke , Blaze’s Security Blog, September 2014 OnionDuke: APT Attacks Via the Tor Network , F-Secure, November 2014 The Connections Between MiniDuke, CosmicDuke and OnionDuke , F-Secure, January 2015 Kaspersky Lab products detect the malware used by the CozyDuke threat actor as: HEUR:Trojan.Win32.CozyDuke.gen Trojan.Win32.CozyBear.*
FireEye Links Russia to Cyber Espionage Campaign Dating Back to 2007 Security firm FireEye has released a new report uncovering and detailing a large cyber-espionage campaign that the company believes is sponsored by the Russian government and dates back to 2007. The group behind the campaign, which FireEye is calling APT28, is a skilled team of developers and operators collecting intelligence on defense and geopolitical issues that would clearly benefit Russia. Unlike many attacks often attributed to China and detailed in Mandiant’s (now part of FireEye) APT1 report released in 2013, the APT28 attackers do not appear to be after intellectual property theft for economic gain. FireEye said the attackers have not been seen trying to steal and profit from financial account information. "This threat group has ben tracked pretty heavily by the community over the last six months,” Dan McWhorter, FireEye VP of Threat Intelligence, told SecurityWeek. Other researchers and firms have referred to the malware used in the attacks as “Sofacy,” McWhorter said. Last week, Trend Micro released a report on a cyber-espionage operation dubbed "Operation Pawn Storm" which targeted military, government and media organizations around the world and utilized the Sofacy malware. But according to McWhorter, the direct link and attribution to Russia is what FireEye is highlighting in its APT28 report. According to FireEye, the threat actors behind APT28 are after insider information related to governments, militaries, and security organizations that would likely benefit the Russian government. Targets include the Caucasus (particularly the Georgian government), Eastern European governments and militaries, and specific security organizations. "APT28 appeared to target individuals affiliated with European security organizations and global multilateral institutions. The Russian government has long cited European security organizations like NATO and the OSCE as existential threats, particularly during periods of increased tension in Europe," FireEye reported. FireEye’s analysis also revealed that APT28 has been “systematically updating their malware” since 2007 and are supported by developers creating tools intended for long-term use and versatility. Based on the analysis of the pieces of malware used by the threat group, researchers determined that more than 96% of the samples have been compiled between Monday and Friday, with close to 90% of them built between 8AM and 6PM UTC+4, which corresponds to the cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg. “We feel we tied together enough evidence to make it conclusive that Russia was the government sponsoring the activity,” McWhorter said. Tools leveraged by the APT28 attackers include the SOURFACE downloader, a second stage backdoor called EVILTOSS, and a modular family of implants written in C++ that FireEye calls CHOPSTICK. Features of CHOPSTICK include the ability to collect detailed information from infected host machines including the Windows version, CPU architecture, Windows Firewall state, User Account Control configuration settings on Windows Vista and above and Internet Explorer settings. The malware also tests for the installation of specific security products and applications, FireEye said. Interestingly, the report (PDF) explained that that two separate CHOPSTICK backdoors could contain “vastly different functionality”, depending on which modules were included at compile time. Similar to many other attacks, APT28 uses spearphishing emails to target its victims. The attackers have attempted to obfuscate their code and utilize techniques to make analysis challenging, FireEye said, including counter-reverse engineering tactics via unused machine instructions and creating much “unnecessary noise” in the disassembly. Additionally, the malware leverages runtime checks, attempting to determine if they are executing in an analysis (virtual) environment, and if so, remain dormant and do not launch their payloads. APT28 Targets According to FireEye, APT28 made at least two specific attempts to target the Georgian Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Defense, and a U.S. defense contractor that was training the Georgian military. The attackers also zoned in on a specific journalist covering issues in the Caucasus region, and had interest those involved in the Baltic Host, an annual logistics planning exercise hosted by either Estonia, Latvia, or Lithuania, all of which Border Russia. “Such targets would potentially provide APT28 with sensitive tactical and strategic intelligence concerning regional military capabilities and relationships,” FireEye said. Several of the domains APT28 registered imitated NATO domain names, including those of NATO Special Operations Headquarters and the NATO Future Forces Exhibition. The threat actors also targeted attendees of European defense exhibitions, including the Farnborough Airshow 2014, EuroNaval 2014, EUROSATORY 2014, and the Counter Terror Expo. Other “probable” targets identified by FireEye include: • Norwegian Army (Forsvaret) • Government of Mexico • Chilean Military • Pakistani Navy • U.S. Defense Contractors • European Embassy in Iraq • Special Operations Forces Exhibition (SOFEX) in Jordan • Defense Attaches in East Asia • Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) • Al-Wayi News Site At the time of publishing the report, FireEye had identified 103 malware samples that says were attributed to APT28, but McWhorter believes there is a great deal more. Earlier this month, iSight Partners revealed that a threat group allegedly linked with the Russian government had been leveraging a Microsoft Windows zero-day vulnerability to target NATO, the European Union, and various private energy and telecommunications organizations in Europe. The group has been dubbed the "Sandworm Team" and it has been using weaponized PowerPoint files in its recent attacks. According to researchers at Trend Micro, the Sandworm team may also have their eyes set on compromising SCADA-based systems. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Network Security NEWS & INDUSTRY Data Protection Tracking & Law Enforcement Cybercrime
Microsoft Disrupts Election-Related Domains Used by Russian Hackers Microsoft on Monday announced that it took control of several domains associated with a notorious Russia-linked threat actor. The names of the domains suggest the hackers may have been using them in campaigns related to the upcoming midterm elections in the United States. The tech giant’s Digital Crimes Unit obtained a court order to take control of six domains created by a threat group tracked as APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sednit, Tsar Team and Sofacy. APT28, which experts believe is sponsored by Russia’s GRU intelligence agency, has been known to launch politics-focused campaigns, including ones aimed at the latest presidential elections in the United States and France. The group may now be targeting the upcoming midterm elections in the U.S. The domains seized by Microsoft are my-iri.org, hudsonorg-my-sharepoint.com, senate.group, adfs-senate.services, adfs-senate.email and office365-onedrive.com. The first domain appears to mimic the International Republican Institute, a non-profit that receives funding from the U.S. government to promote democracy around the world. The second domain appears to impersonate the Hudson Institute, a politically conservative non-profit think tank. The other domains mimic the website of the U.S. Senate and Microsoft’s Office 365 service. While the domains may have been set up for election-related campaigns, Microsoft says it currently has no evidence that any of them were successfully used in attacks, and it’s unclear exactly who the hackers intended on targeting using these domains. The company revealed last month that it had spotted some Microsoft phishing domains that had apparently been set up as part of attacks aimed at the campaigns of three congressional candidates who are running in the upcoming midterm elections. “Microsoft has notified both nonprofit organizations. Both have responded quickly, and Microsoft will continue to work closely with them and other targeted organizations on countering cybersecurity threats to their systems. We’ve also been monitoring and addressing domain activity with Senate IT staff the past several months, following prior attacks we detected on the staffs of two current senators,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer, said in a blog post. This is not the first time Microsoft has seized domains used by APT28. The company says it has used court orders a total of 12 times over the past two years to shut down 84 fake websites linked to the threat group. Sean Sullivan, Security Advisor at F-Secure, cautioned that the domains targeted by Microsoft may not necessarily be related to elections. “Microsoft’s announcement is generating a lot of attention and the focus is overwhelmingly centered on the 2018 mid-term elections. But it’s important not to lose sight of the bigger issue,” Sullivan told SecurityWeek. “The focus on think tanks holding pro-sanction views on Russia’s current regime is about espionage. In short: spies are going to spy. That’s true whether or not it’s an election year. There seems to be a rush to conclude that these six domains are part of an “attack” on the elections that risks missing the complete threat model – and therefore the complete countermeasures that should be taken.” Microsoft took this opportunity to announce its new AccountGuard initiative, which provides free cybersecurity protection to candidates, campaigns and political institutions using Office 365. The AccountGuard service, which is part of Microsoft’s Defending Democracy Program, involves notifications about threats, security guidance and education, and the opportunity to test preview releases of new security features. AccountGuard is currently available only in the United States, but Microsoft plans on offering it in other countries as well in the coming months. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Phishing Tracking & Law Enforcement Management & Strategy
Russian Hackers Exploit Recently Patched Flash Vulnerability The Russia-linked cyber espionage group known as APT28 has been using a recently patched Adobe Flash Player vulnerability in attacks aimed at government organizations and aerospace companies, security firm Proofpoint reported on Thursday. The Flash Player flaw in question, CVE-2017-11292, was patched by Adobe on October 16. At the time when the patch was released, the vulnerability had a zero-day status, as it had been exploited in targeted attacks by a Middle Eastern threat actor named BlackOasis to deliver FinFisher spyware. APT28, which is also known as Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team, started launching attacks using CVE-2017-11292 on October 18, Proofpoint said. It’s unclear if APT28 discovered the exploit on its own, purchased it, or reverse engineered the one used in the BlackOasis attack. Nevertheless, Proofpoint pointed out that the cyberspies are likely trying to take advantage of the recently fixed vulnerability before Adobe’s patch is widely deployed by users. The attacks observed by the security firm were aimed at organizations in the United States, Europe and other countries. The targets included foreign government organizations with responsibilities similar to the U.S. State Department, and private-sector aerospace companies. The messages delivering the exploits were highly targeted and they were sent out using free email services, Proofpoint said. The attackers leveraged malicious documents and their previously known Flash Player exploit platform named DealersChoice to deliver the first-stage implant, specifically a reconnaissance tool. While CVE-2017-11292 affects Windows, Mac and Linux systems, APT28 apparently only launched attacks against Windows users. Tests conducted by researchers showed that the exploit works on systems with Windows 7 or Windows 10 with Microsoft Office 2013. The exploit, however, fails to execute on 64-bit systems running Windows 10 Fall Creators Update (RS3) and Office 2016. “APT28 is a sophisticated state-sponsored group that is using the vulnerability to attack potentially high-value targets but it is likely that other threat actors will follow suit and attempt to exploit this vulnerability more widely, whether in exploit kits or via other attack vectors,” Proofpoint researchers explained. The security firm has been working on taking down the command and control (C&C) domains used in these attacks. Related: Russian Hackers Target Montenegro as Country Joins NATO Related: Russian Cyberspies Target Hotels in Europe Related: Tech Firms Target Domains Used by Russia-linked Threat Group (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Malware Vulnerabilities
Russian Hackers Used Two Zero-Days in Recent Targeted Attack: FireEye FireEye said on Saturday that it recently detected a highly targeted attack exploiting two zero-day vulnerabilities in an effort to compromise an “international government entity” in an industry vertical that aligns with known targets hit by a threat actor group which FireEye calls APT28. FireEye has described APT28 as a skilled team of developers and operators collecting intelligence on defense and geopolitical issues that would clearly benefit Russia. The security firm previously traced cyber-espionage campaigns by the group that date back to 2007. FireEye said that it first detected the attacks on April 13th, 2015, when the attackers attempted to exploit two zero-day vulnerabilities, including a recently patched flaw in Adobe Flash (CVE-2015-3043) and a brand new one in Microsoft Windows (CVE-2015-1701). Through its analysis and technical indicators and command and control infrastructure, FireEye believes that the APT28 attackers are responsible for the campaign, which it is calling "Operation RussianDoll". Despite use of the two zero-days, the attackers were said to be unsuccessful in breaching their target. A FireEye spokesperson told SecurityWeek that it detected the exploits as they were delivered which prevented an intrusion. According to FireEye, the exploit process takes place like this: 1. User clicks link to attacker controlled website 2. HTML/JS launcher page serves Flash exploit 3. Flash exploit triggers CVE-2015-3043, executes shellcode 4. Shellcode downloads and runs executable payload 5. Executable payload exploits local privilege escalation (CVE-2015-1701) to steal System token The CVE-2015-3043 exploit delivers a malware variant that shares characteristics with the APT28 backdoors CHOPSTICK and CORESHELL malware families, both described in FireEye’s initial report on APT28. “One of the C2 locations for the new payload, 87.236.215[.]246, also hosts a suspected APT28 domain ssl-icloud[.]com,” FireEye said. The payload contains an exploit for the unpatched local privilege escalation vulnerability CVE-2015-1701 in Microsoft Windows. The exploit does not affect Windows 8 and later. “While there is not yet a patch available for the Windows vulnerability, updating Adobe Flash to the latest version will render this in-the-wild exploit innocuous,” FireEye noted in a blog post. “We have only seen CVE-2015-1701 in use in conjunction with the Adobe Flash exploit for CVE-2015-3043. We are working with the Microsoft Security Team on CVE-2015-1701.” “Because CVE-2015-3043 is already patched, this remote exploit will not succeed on a fully patched system,” FireEye said. “If an attacker wanted to exploit CVE-2015-1701, they would first have to be executing code on the victim’s machine. Baring authorized access to the victim’s machine, the attacker would have to find some other means, such as crafting a new Flash exploit, to deliver a CVE-2015-1701 payload.” Earlier this week, Trend Micro reported new activity on “Operation Pawn Storm” which is assumed to be the same threat actors tracked by FireEye as APT28. According to the most recent report from Trend Micro, the APT group has introduced new infrastructure and is "zeroing in" on targets including the White House and NATO members. Trend Micro also eluded to possible connections with the Russian government. “We determined that the group also aimed its attacks on Russian dissidents and those opposing the Kremlin, as well as Ukrainian activists and military, which has led some to speculate that there might be a connection with the Russian government,” Feike Hacquebord, a Senior Threat Researcher at Trend Micro, noted in a blog post on Thursday. Last year FireEye was able to trace at least two specific attempts by APT28 to target the Georgian Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Defense, and a U.S. defense contractor that was training the Georgian military. *Updated to include name of campaign and modified headline (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities Cybercrime
Who Hacked French President-elect Emmanuel Macron's Campaign? One thing is clear. The campaign of French President-elect Emmanuel Macron was hacked prior to the French presidential election this last Sunday -- and the finger was immediately pointed at Russia's APT28 (Fancy Bear). Russia has been caught meddling in western politics once again. Evidence of APT28 involvement seems to come from three sources: the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), security researchers, and circumstantial. The NSA was quick to blame Russia via a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on Tuesday this week. The head of the NSA, Admiral Mike Rogers, told the committee that the NSA had warned its French counterparts at the time of the hack: "Look, we're watching the Russians, we're seeing them penetrate some of your infrastructure." The Russians are here. Evidence from security researchers focuses on two areas: phishing sites and leaked document metadata. One phishing site, apparently created by APT28 on March 25, 2017 and clearly designed for the Macron campaign, 'onedrive-en-marche-dot-fr', was reported by Trend Micro in April. Other sites apparently tied to the APT28 infrastructures include portal-office-dot-fr, accounts-office-dot-fr and mail-en-marche-dot-fr -- and another with the surprising name of totally-legit-cloud-dot-email. The document evidence includes the discovery of Cyrillic characters within some documents apparently leaked by the hackers. WikiLeaks tweeted on Saturday (the day before the French presidential vote), "#MacronLeaks assessment update: several Office files have Cyrillic meta data..." The obvious assumption is that Russian APT hackers altered the files before leaking them. But while clearly suggesting possible APT28 involvement in the hack, French security researcher x0rz has demonstrated that neither of these can be taken as actual proof. In a blog post on Tuesday, he demonstrated the ease with which anybody could edit metadata and pretend to be anyone. He went further to explain how "I setup my own domain mimicking some APT28 artefacts: totally-legit-cloud-dot-email that has been registered using the same information as another APT28 phishing domain used during the attack on EM staff... This domain (that I own) is now linked with actual APT28 infrastructure according to some threat intelligence OSINT tools" (eg, threatcrowd.org). In other words, anyone could have established the APT28-related phishing domains, and anyone could have planted Cyrillic characters in the metadata. x0rz believes that all this proves is that it might have been APT28, but it might not have been APT28. The circumstantial evidence is that the hack follows the basic pattern used by (what everybody believes to have been) APT28 in the US election hacks: phish for the emails of the candidate you want to lose, and then leak them. This evidence claims that since this is what APT28 does, and this is what Russia would want, then therefore this was done by Russia. But the parallel is not perfect. The Macron hack occurred far later in the election campaign than the DNC hack; the phishing emails appear to be far clumsier; and the email leak occurred too late to have any effect on the election outcome. The Macron campaign's answer to this is that they were expecting hackers, that they knew they would not be able to prevent a hack, and they prepared for it with what amounts to the 'deception defense'. The New York Times reported, "'We created false accounts, with false content, as traps. We did this massively, to create the obligation for them to verify, to determine whether it was a real account,' Mr. Mahjoubi [the campaign's digital director] said. 'I don't think we prevented them. We just slowed them down,' he said. 'Even if it made them lose one minute, we're happy'." SecurityWeek talked to Kevin Eley, VP EMEA at TrapX, about the deception defense. In full, it amounts to the installation of a honeypot-like platform within the customer's infrastructure. Attackers are diverted towards the false shares, false databases, false structure -- and as soon as anything attempts to access them, the existence of an intruder is confirmed. The intrusion can then be tracked back to its source and the vulnerability closed. And if the intruder does manage to exfiltrate any data, it is false data. "In the Macron hack," he told SecurityWeek, "the deception seems to be at the data level only." He confirmed that although this could not have been achieved by the campaign on the fly, it could have been done well in advance anticipating a hack. In other words, it can explain but does not prove why the leak occurred so late -- the attackers simply didn't know what to leak. Just to confuse the issue further, Tyler Durden, discussing the Shadow Brokers' most recent leaks, writes today on zerohedge, "Inside the NSA dump among many other findings, we find hundreds of NSA attacks on China, as well as penetration attempts in which the NSA 'pretends' to be China so one wonders how difficult it would be for the NSA to pretend they are, oh, say Russia?" So, who did hack Macron? The obvious conclusion is Russia; because Russia would benefit most from a Le Pen victory. But the timing of the document leaks was far too late to benefit Le Pen, and would more likely benefit Macron. The Occupy Movement could alternatively say that the 1% would benefit from an ex-Rothschild banker (Macron); just as they would benefit from a Republican president and a City of London not controlled by Brussels. It is not just Russia that has an incentive in meddling. "As far as attribution related to the hacks Macron's campaign suffered, or the origins of the stolen documents," F-Secure researcher Andy Patel told SecurityWeek, "fingers are being pointed based on 'who would/wouldn't do something like this?' by people who don't have access to enough evidence to be 100% certain of anything." The bottom line is that we do not know who hacked Macron, nor why. It might have had nothing to with discrediting Macron per se, but merely to add to the current confusion over real and fake news on the internet. "If it's information warfare -- rather than cyber warfare," suggests F-Secure security advisor Sean Sullivan, "then the point is not stealth. It's to make the point that your systems are under attack, your options are limited, and you always need to be on your guard. And there's nothing you or your leaders can do to stop us! "Nothing is certain. But that's probably also exactly the goal of the information warfare, to get you to believe in nothing." (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Cyberattack 'Ongoing' Against German Government Network The German government's IT network is under an "ongoing" cyberattack", the parliamentary committee on intelligence affairs said Thursday, without confirming a media report that Russian hackers were behind the assault. "It is a real cyberattack on parts of the government system. It's an ongoing process, an ongoing attack," said Armin Schuster, chairman of the committee, adding that no further details could be given to avoid passing crucial information on to the attackers. Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere said the hacking was "a technically sophisticated attack that had been planned for some time", adding that it had been brought under control. The highly professional assault had been monitored by the security agencies in order to gain insights into the mode of attack and its targets, said de Maiziere. German news agency DPA, which first reported the attack the previous day, said Thursday, citing unnamed security sources, that the likely authors were the Russian cyber espionage group "Snake". DPA had earlier pointed at the Russian hacker group APT28, which has been accused of attacks on Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign as well as on Germany's parliamentary IT system in 2015. German security authorities had only detected the online spying in December, DPA has reported, adding that it had infiltrated the systems of the foreign and interior ministries. Konstantin von Notz, deputy of the committee, complained it was "completely unacceptable" that members of the oversight body only learnt of the attack through the media. - Russian hackers - Top security officials had repeatedly warned during Germany's 2017 general election campaign that Russian hackers may seek to influence or disrupt the polls. While authorities did not have concrete proof, they have blamed the malware attack that crippled the Bundestag parliamentary network in 2015 for days on the APT28, also known as "Fancy Bear" or "Sofacy". The attack netted 17 gigabytes of data which, officials feared, could be used to blackmail MPs or discredit them. In a separate assault, several German political parties were in September 2016 sent fake emails purporting to be from NATO headquarters which contained a link that installed spying software on victims' computers. The emails affected party operations such as a regional network of Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union and the federal offices of the far-left Die Linke party. Amid the rising frequency of attacks, Germany's defence ministry in 2016 set up a cyber department to coordinate the response to online intrusions. Merkel, seeking to prepare the German public for more online attacks, has said people should "not allow themselves to be irritated" by such rogue operations. Related: Russia-linked Hackers Directly Targeting Diplomats: Report (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Russian Spies Lure Targets With NATO Cybersecurity Conference A cyber espionage group linked to Russia has been trying to deliver malware to targeted individuals using documents referencing a NATO cybersecurity conference, Cisco’s Talos research team reported on Monday. The attack has been linked to the notorious threat actor known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear, Sofacy, Group 74, Sednit, Tsar Team and Strontium. The campaign was apparently aimed at individuals interested in the CyCon U.S. conference organized by the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (CCDCOE) in collaboration with the Army Cyber Institute at West Point on November 7-8 in Washington, D.C. The hackers created malicious documents with information that was copied from the official CyCon U.S. website. The topic used as bait in this attack suggests that the threat actor targeted individuals with an interest in cyber security. APT28 has been known to use zero-day exploits in its operations and, earlier this month, researchers noticed that the hackers had started leveraging a Flash Player vulnerability that Adobe had patched just two days prior. However, in the campaign analyzed by Cisco Talos, the attackers did not use any zero-days. Instead, they relied on Office documents containing a VBA script. The goal was to deliver Seduploader, a piece of malware which has been used by the threat actor in other NATO-related attacks as well. “In the previous campaign where adversaries used Office document exploits as an infection vector, the payload was executed in the Office word process. In this campaign, adversaries did not use any exploit. Instead, the payload is executed in standalone mode by rundll32.exe,” researchers explained. Seduploader is a reconnaissance malware capable of capturing screenshots, collecting and exfiltrating information about the system, executing code, and downloading files. The variant used in these attacks is slightly different compared to previously known samples, which is likely an attempt to evade detection. The CCDCOE published an alert on its website on Monday to warn people interested in the CyCon conference about the attack. “This is clearly an attempt to exploit the credibility of Army Cyber Institute and NATO CCDCOE in order to target high-ranking officials and experts of cyber security,” the organization said. APT28 is not the only threat actor to use cyber security conferences as a lure in their operations. Last year, Palo Alto Networks reported that a China-linked espionage group known as Lotus Blossom, Elise and Esile had used fake invitations to the company’s Cybersecurity Summit to trick users into installing malware. Related: Attribution Hell - Cyberspies Hacking Other Cyberspies Related: Russian Cyberspies Target Hotels in Europe Related: Tech Firms Target Domains Used by Russia-linked Threat Group (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Email Security Virus & Malware Malware
Russian Hackers Target Montenegro as Country Joins NATO Hackers linked to Russia launched cyberattacks on the Montenegro government just months before the country joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and experts believe these attacks will likely continue. Despite strong opposition from Russia, Montenegro officially joined NATO on June 5. Russia has threatened to retaliate but it may have already taken action against Montenegro in cyberspace. Attacks aimed at the Montenegro government spotted earlier this year by security firm FireEye leveraged malware and exploits associated with the Russia-linked threat group known as APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team. APT28 has been known to target Montenegro. In the latest attacks observed by researchers, the hackers used spear-phishing emails to deliver malicious documents pertaining to a NATO secretary meeting and a visit by a European army unit to Montenegro. Experts believe the latter document may have been stolen and weaponized by the attackers. The malware delivered in these attacks is tracked by FireEye as GAMEFISH and it has been exclusively used by APT28. GAMEFISH is a backdoor that is tracked by other security firms as Sednit, Seduploader, JHUHUGIT and Sofacy. The malicious documents delivered the malware via a Flash exploit framework. FireEye has privately informed its customers about this framework, but it has not detailed it in any public reports. However, the company told SecurityWeek that this framework is also known as DealersChoice, which Palo Alto Networks analyzed in October 2016. FireEye analyst Ben Read told SecurityWeek that the malicious documents first profile the targeted system in an effort to determine which version of Flash Player is present. A command and control (C&C) server is then contacted and the appropriate Flash exploit is downloaded. The exploits, which can include CVE-2015-7645 and CVE-2016-7855, are used to deliver GAMEFISH. Read said it was unclear if APT28’s attacks against the Montenegro government were successful. “It’s likely that this activity is a part of APT28’s continued focus on targeting various NATO member states, as well as the organization itself,” said Tony Cole, VP and CTO for Global Government at FireEye. “Russia has strongly opposed Montenegro's NATO accession process and is likely to continue using cyber capabilities to undermine Montenegro's smooth integration into the alliance,” Cole added. “Montenegro's accession could increase cyber threat activity directed toward NATO, and provide additional avenues for adversaries like Russia to illicitly access NATO information.” APT28 has been known to target NATO member countries, including by leveraging zero-day vulnerabilities. The group has also been involved in the recent U.S. election attacks. While the threat actor is widely believed to be sponsored by the Russian government, Moscow has repeatedly denied the accusations. The country’s president, Vladimir Putin, recently claimed that patriotic hackers from Russia could be behind these attacks, but denied that the government is involved in hacking activities. Related: Russian Outsourcing Provides Plausible Deniability for State-Sponsored Hacking Related: NSA Contractor Charged With Leaking Russia Hacking Report Related: Kremlin 'Resolutely' Denies Russia Hacked US Vote (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware
Russia-Linked Spies Deliver Malware via DDE Attack The Russia-linked cyber espionage group tracked as APT28 and Fancy Bear has started delivering malware to targeted users by leveraging a recently disclosed technique involving Microsoft Office documents and a Windows feature called Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE). Researchers at McAfee noticed the use of the DDE technique while analyzing a campaign that involved blank documents whose name referenced the recent terrorist attack in New York City. Researchers warned recently that DDE, a protocol designed for data exchanges between Windows applications, could be used by hackers as a substitute for macros in attacks involving malicious documents. Shortly after, security firms reported seeing attacks leveraging DDE to deliver malware, including Locky ransomware. Microsoft pointed out that DDE, which has been replaced with Object Linking and Embedding (OLE), is a legitimate feature. The company has yet to make any changes that would prevent attacks, but mitigations included in Windows do provide protection, and users are shown two warnings before the malicious content is executed. In the APT28 attacks spotted by McAfee, cyberspies used the document referencing the New York City attack to deliver a first-stage malware tracked as Seduploader. The malware, typically used by the threat actor as a reconnaissance tool, is downloaded from a remote server using PowerShell commands. Based on the analysis of the malware and command and control (C&C) domains used in the attack, researchers determined that the campaign involving DDE started on October 25. The attack using the New York City incident as lure appears to be part of a campaign that also involved documents referencing Saber Guardian, a multinational military exercise conducted by the U.S. Army in Eastern Europe in an effort to deter an invasion (by Russia) into NATO territory. Another recent APT28 attack leveraged a document describing CyCon U.S., a conference organized by the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (CCDCOE) in collaboration with the Army Cyber Institute at West Point. However, the CyCon attack relied on a malicious VBA script and it did not involve DDE. “Given the publicity the Cy Con U.S campaign received in the press, it is possible APT28 actors moved away from using the VBA script employed in past actions and chose to incorporate the DDE technique to bypass network defenses,” McAfee researchers said in a blog post. “[The] use of recent domestic events and a prominent US military exercise focused on deterring Russian aggression highlight APT28’s ability and interest in exploiting geopolitical events for their operations,” they added. Related: Tech Firms Target Domains Used by Russia-linked Threat Group Related: Attribution Hell - Cyberspies Hacking Other Cyberspies (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware Vulnerabilities
Pawn Storm Cyberspies Target German Ruling Party The Russia-linked cyber espionage group Pawn Storm has been observed targeting the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, the political party of Chancellor Angela Merkel. Last year, researchers reported that servers in the German Parliament (Bundestag) were infected with malware by Pawn Storm, which is also known as APT28, Sednit, Sofacy, Fancy Bear and Tsar Team. Trend Micro discovered in April that the threat actor was launching credential phishing attacks against the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and high-profile users of German freemail providers GMX and WEB.DE. The attackers set up a fake CDU webmail server in Latvia, and three phishing domains for web.de and gmx.de using a VPS provider registered in the United Arab Emirates. Trend Micro previously reported that this provider, which has servers in the Netherlands and Romania, was used by Pawn Storm in at least 80 high profile attacks aimed at governments around the world. “Pawn Storm attackers often conduct sophisticated, simultaneous attacks against targets’ corporate and personal email accounts. The attackers build a fake version of the corporate webmail server of the targeted organization and at the same attack key members of the organization on their private free webmail accounts,” said Feike Hacquebord, senior threat researcher at Trend Micro. “Credential phishing is an important espionage tool: we have witnessed Pawn Storm downloading complete online e-mail boxes and securing future access by e.g. setting up a forwarding e-mail addresses secretly.” “It is a recurring theme in recent Pawn Storm attacks; organizations get hit from different angles simultaneously. We have seen that happening time and time again against various governments, armed forces, defense companies and media,” Hacquebord added. Pawn Storm has been around for many years and continues to be highly active. Trend Micro reported seeing more than a dozen active command and control (C&C) servers for a piece of malware it calls “X-Agent.” This second-stage malware is used by the threat actor only against high-value targets. In March, Trend Micro said it had seen Pawn Storm attacks aimed at Turkey, including the government’s Directorate General of Press and Information, the Grand National Assembly, the newspaper Hürriyet, and the Prime Minister’s Office. Related: Fysbis Backdoor Preferred by Pawn Storm Group to Target Linux (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Researchers Dissect Tool Used by Infamous Russian Hacker Group Sofacy’s First-Stage Malware Zebrocy Analyzed ESET security researchers have taken a deep dive into one of the tools heavily used by the Russian threat actor Sofacy over the past couple of years. Dubbed Zebrocy, the tool serves as a first-stage malware in attacks and is comprised of a Delphi downloader, an AutoIt downloader and a Delphi backdoor. Used in multiple attacks, the malicious program often acts as a downloader for the actor’s main backdoor, Xagent. Also referred to as APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sednit, and Strontium, and active since around 2007, the group is focused on cyber espionage and has hit government, military, and defense organizations worldwide. Supposedly the actor behind attacks targeting the 2016 presidential election in the United States, Sofacy has been known to target Ukraine and NATO countries, and has recently switched focus to targets in Asia. Coexisting with another Sofacy first-stage tool, Seduploader, the Zebrocy malware has been used in attacks against victims in Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Egypt, Georgia, Iran, Kazakhstan, Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uruguay and Zimbabwe, ESET reveals. Zebrocy is usually delivered via emails carrying malicious attachments and users are lured into opening them. These are either Microsoft Office documents that deliver the payload via VBA macros, exploits, or Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE), or archives containing executables with an icon and a document-like filename. Once the malicious attachment is executed, the first stage of the Zebrocy family is delivered: a Delphi downloader (in some attacks the AutoIt stage was used directly). The downloader is usually masked using document or Windows library icons and some samples are packed with UPX. When launched, the malware displays a splash window with a bogus error message to distract the user. In the background, however, the malware drops a file under %TEMP% and adds a Windows registry to achieve persistence. It also gathers information on the compromised system and sends it to the command and control (C&C) server via a HTTP POST request. If the target is considered of interest, the C&C responds with the next stage, the AutoIt downloader, which acts as another layer of the reconnaissance phase. Packing all of the functionality of the Delphi downloader and even more, the AutoIt downloader is sometimes used as the first stage instead. The tool can detect sandbox and virtual environments and retrieve system information such as: a list of installed software, Windows version (32-bit or 64-bit), process list, hard drive information, and screenshots, along with various details about the computer, gathered using Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) objects. The Delphi backdoor, which is the last stage of the Zebrocy chain of components, has an internal versioning number, unrelated to the campaign it is used in. It embeds configuration data such as: AES keys for C&C communication, URLs, malware version, persistence windows registry key/value, path to store temporary files, and the names of hidden directories to be created to store temporary files. Once set up, the malware executes callback functions via the Windows API function SetTimer, allowing the attackers to handle features and commands: take a screenshot of the desktop, capture keystrokes, list drives/network resources, read/write into Windows registry, copy/move/delete a file system object, and execute files or create scheduled tasks. The backdoor supports around 30 commands, which differ from one version to another. For communication purposes, the malware stores the report of these functions on a temp file, then reds the file content and sends it to the C&C. Zebrocy might be the successor of another malware components written in Delphi that Sofacy is known have used, namely Downdelph. The tool was last seen in September 2015, two months before Zebrocy emerged and both malware families also use a similar deployment method, the researchers note. “We have seen Zebrocy being heavily used by the Sednit group over the last two years. Our analysis of the many new variants that appeared on a regular basis since 2017 clearly indicates that Zebrocy is being actively maintained and improved by its author(s). We can consider it as one of the stable, mature tools in Sednit’s arsenal, a tool that deserves to be monitored closely,” ESET concludes. Related: Sofacy Attacks Overlap With Other State-Sponsored Operations Related: Russian Cyberspies Shift Focus From NATO Countries to Asia (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
Russian Cyberspies Shift Focus From NATO Countries to Asia The Russia-linked cyber espionage group known as Sofacy, APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sednit and Strontium has shifted its focus from NATO member countries and Ukraine to Central Asia and even further east, Kaspersky Lab reported on Tuesday. Sofacy, which is believed to be behind attacks targeting the 2016 presidential election in the United States, has been known to target Ukraine and NATO countries. NATO was heavily targeted in early 2017, including with zero-day exploits, but Kaspersky said the group later started to shift its focus towards the Middle East and Central Asia, which had been less targeted in the first half of the year. According to the security firm, by mid-2017, detections of a Sofacy backdoor tracked as SPLM, CHOPSTICK and X-Agent showed that the hackers had been increasingly targeting former Soviet countries in Central Asia, including telecoms firms and defense-related organizations. The attacks were aimed at countries such as Turkey, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, Jordan and Uzbekistan. Attacks involving SPLM and a tool tracked as Zebrocy were increasingly spotted between the second and fourth quarters of 2017 further east. The list of countries where these pieces of malware were detected by Kaspersky includes China, Mongolia, South Korea and Malaysia. Zebrocy, which allows attackers to collect data from victims, has been used to target various types of organizations, including accounting firms, science and engineering centers, industrial organizations, ministries, embassies and consulates, national security and intelligence agencies, press and translation services, and NGOs. As for the infrastructure used in these attacks, researchers pointed out that Sofacy has been fairly consistent throughout the years and many of its techniques and patterns have been publicly disclosed. As a result, Kaspersky expects to see some changes this year. “Sofacy is one of the most active threat actors we monitor, and it continues to spear-phish its way into targets, often on a remarkable global scale,” explained Kurt Baumgartner, principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab. “Our data and detections show that in 2017, the threat actor further developed its toolset as it moved from high volume NATO spear-phish targeting towards the Middle East and Central Asia, before finally shifting its focus further East. Mass campaigns appear to have given way to subsets of activity and malware involving such tools as Zebrocy and SPLM.” Related: Russia-Linked Spies Deliver Malware via DDE Attack Related: Russian 'Fancy Bear' Hackers Abuse Blogspot for Phishing Related: Kaspersky Details APT Trends for Q2 2017 (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
Germany Accuses Russia of Hybrid Warfare Russia has been accused of waging its own brand of cyber hybrid warfare against Germany, with specific focus on next year's elections. In particular, the APT28 (Fancy Bear) hacking group -- thought to be linked to the Russian government -- is accused of spreading propaganda and disinformation under the guise of 'hacktivists'. The recent attack on Deutsche Telekom routers is thought by some experts to have emanated from Russia, but there is no proof. Last year's attack against the German parliament, and attacks against German politicians in August, are also blamed on Russia. Speaking earlier this week, Chancellor Angela Merkel commented, "Such cyber-attacks, or hybrid conflicts as they are known in Russian doctrine, are now part of daily life and we must learn to cope with them." Now both the heads of the German foreign intelligence agency (BND), Bruno Kahl, and the domestic intelligence agency (BfV), Hans-Georg Maassen, have warned about increasing Russian cyber activity in Germany. Last week Kahl told the Süddeutsche Zeitung, "There are findings that cyber-attacks take place which have no other meaning than to create political uncertainty. There is a kind of pressure on public discourse and on democracy, which is unacceptable." He added that there are indications of Russian involvement. "Attribution to a state actor is technically difficult, but there is some evidence that it is at least tolerated or desired by the state." Yesterday, however, a statement issued by the BfV was more forthright. "Since the start of the Ukraine crisis," it started, "we have seen a significant increase in Russian propaganda and disinformation campaigns in Germany." It warns of a broad spectrum of instruments and "an enormous use of financial resources on Russia's part" designed to strengthen extremist groups in order to shape political discourse in Germany. The statement names APT28 as using a campaign that is often executed as 'false flags'. "This approach represents a previously unseen methodology in campaigns that are controlled by Russia." Note however, that many experts believe that the attack against French television company TV5 was also a 'false flag': in reality APT28 pretending to be ISIS. The statement goes on to say, "Spear-phishing against political parties and parliamentary groups have increased dramatically. They are attributed to the APT28 campaign, which was also responsible for the DNC hack. APT28 successfully exfiltrated data from the German Bundestag in 2015." Maassen describes the method and motivation behind the APT28 campaign. "Propaganda, disinformation, cyber-attacks, cyber espionage and cyber sabotage are part of hybrid threats against western democracies." He points to social networks as the new way for people to share and consume information, adding that it provides the perfect entry point for disinformation and campaigns designed to reshape public opinion. He also warns of an "increase in cyber espionage within the political arena". Government officials, members of the Bundestag, and party workers all face a potential threat. "Stolen information could be used in the election campaign to discredit German politicians." The political theory is that Russia will benefit from a weakened European Union -- already wounded by Brexit. By playing to European concerns over uncontrolled immigration and refugee support, and by fostering nationalism within individual member states -- in this instance Germany -- Russia will be able to weaken the existing European sanctions. Russia denies involvement in hacking. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Russian Cyberspies Target Hotels in Europe A notorious Russia-linked hacker group specializing in cyber espionage is believed to be behind an ongoing campaign targeting hotels in several European countries. FireEye has linked the attacks with moderate confidence to APT28, a threat actor also known as Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear, Sofacy, Sednit and Strontium. The group is believed to have launched numerous high-profile attacks, including a campaign targeting last year’s presidential election in the United States. While the recent attacks have targeted the networks of hotels, the security firm says there is some indication that the hackers may actually be looking to access the devices of government and business travelers via the guest Wi-Fi provided by these hotels. FireEye has seen attacks targeting several companies in the hospitality sector, including hotels in seven European countries and one Middle Eastern country. The attacks start with a spear phishing email sent to a hotel employee. The emails carry a document named “Hotel_Reservation_Form.doc,” which uses macros to decode a dropper that deploys GameFish, a piece of malware known to be used by APT28. This backdoor was used recently in a campaign launched by the threat group against Montenegro just as the country had been preparing to join NATO. Once they gained access to the targeted hotel’s network, the hackers used the NSA-linked EternalBlue SMB exploit, which was also involved in the recent WannaCry and NotPetya outbreaks, to move laterally within the network. Researchers said this was the first time the group had used this exploit. The cyberspies also used Responder, an open source penetration testing tool developed by Laurent Gaffie of SpiderLabs. They leveraged Responder for NetBIOS Name Service (NBT-NS) poisoning. “This technique listens for NBT-NS (UDP/137) broadcasts from victim computers attempting to connect to network resources. Once received, Responder masquerades as the sought-out resource and causes the victim computer to send the username and hashed password to the attacker-controlled machine. APT28 used this technique to steal usernames and hashed passwords that allowed escalation of privileges in the victim network,” FireEye researchers explained. In one incident that occurred in 2016, a user connected to a hotel’s Wi-Fi and 12 hours later their device was accessed by APT28 using stolen credentials. The attackers started moving through the victim’s network and accessed their Outlook Web Access (OWA) account. While these attacks can be carried out remotely, in this case the attacker appeared to be on the same network and physically close to the victim. Kaspersky reported recently that APT28 has been using two zero-day vulnerabilities in targeted attacks, and it has started experimenting with new macro techniques. These are not the only attacks apparently aimed at travelers. Other campaigns include DarkHotel, which some have linked to South Korea, Duqu 2.0, targeting the networks of European hotels hosting participants in Iranian nuclear negotiations, and according to some reports, high-profile people visiting Russia and China may have their devices accessed. “Cyber espionage activity against the hospitality industry is typically focused on collecting information on or from hotel guests of interest rather than on the hotel industry itself, though actors may also collect information on the hotel as a means of facilitating operations,” FireEye said. “Business and government personnel who are traveling, especially in a foreign country, must often rely on less secure systems to conduct business than at their home office, or may be unfamiliar with the additional threats posed while abroad.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare Network Security NEWS & INDUSTRY Privacy Virus & Threats Wireless Security Phishing Risk Management Virus & Malware Malware Mobile & Wireless
Russia-linked Pawn Storm Attackers Exploiting New Adobe Flash Zero-Day While Adobe released security updates on Tuesday to address multiple security vulnerabilities in Flash Player, Reader and Acrobat, a prominent Russian threat actor group is actively exploiting an unpatched Flash Zero-Day vulnerability in attacks. According to Trend Micro, the threat group behind Operation Pawn Storm (also known as APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, Sofacy and Tsar Team) is using Adobe Flash zero-day exploit code in attacks targeting several Ministries of Foreign Affairs. The attackers, which are believed to be linked to the Russian government, have previously targeted military, defense industry, government and media organizations from across the world. Despite recent patches issued by Adobe on Oct. 13, this vulnerability is still unpatched, leaving Flash users vulnerable to attacks. The Flash zero-day affects at least Adobe Flash Player versions 19.0.0.185 and 19.0.0.207, the security firm said. Trend Micro found in its analysis that several Ministries of Foreign Affairs were targeted with spear phishing e-mails containing links to malicious Web sites that hosted the exploit. Subject lines used to entice users to click included many “interesting” events such as: “Suicide car bomb targets NATO troop convoy Kabul” “Syrian troops make gains as Putin defends air strikes” “Israel launches airstrikes on targets in Gaza” “Russia warns of response to reported US nuke buildup in Turkey, Europe” “US military reports 75 US-trained rebels return Syria” Trend Micro researchers Brooks Li, Feike Hacquebord, and Peter Pi explained in a blog post that recent URLs hosting the new Flash zero-day exploits are similar previously used in attacks that targeted NATO members and the White House in April of this year. “Ministries of Foreign Affairs have become a particular focus of interest for Pawn Storm recently,” the researchers wrote. “Aside from malware attacks, fake Outlook Web Access (OWA) servers were also set up for various ministries. These are used for simple, but extremely effective, credential phishing attacks. One Ministry of Foreign Affairs got its DNS settings for incoming mail compromised. This means that Pawn Storm has been intercepting incoming e-mail to this organization for an extended period of time in 2015.” The campaign has also targeted the spouses of senior U.S. officials, Tom Kellermann, Chief Cybersecurity Officer at Trend Micro, told SecurityWeek. In April, FireEye reported that the threat group had used Flash Player and Windows zero-days in a highly targeted attack aimed at an international government entity. Operation Pawn Storm is assumed to be the same threat actors tracked by FireEye as APT28. Early this year, Trend Micro found the attackers using malware targeting iOS devices to infect users and steal sensitive information. “Pawn Storm has used six zero days in the last year and illustrates organized activity of cyber militias in the former Soviet Bloc,” Kellermann said. While attribution is always difficult, the Pawn Storm attackers are a skilled team of developers and operators collecting intelligence on defense and geopolitical issues that would clearly benefit Russia. Other organizations targeted by the group in the past include the Caucasus (particularly the Georgian government), Eastern European governments and militaries, and specific security organizations. The threat actors have also targeted attendees of European defense exhibitions, including the Farnborough Airshow 2014, EuroNaval 2014, EUROSATORY 2014, and the Counter Terror Expo. Related: 'Operation Pawn Storm' Continues to Step Up Attack Activity Related: 'Operation Pawn Storm' Cyber-Espionage Campaign Hits Organizations Related: Cyber Espionage Group Adds iOS Spyware to Its Arsenal (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Russian Cyber Espionage Group Planning to Hit Banks: Report APT28, the notorious cyber espionage group that is believed to be sponsored by the Russian government, is planning to attack various financial institutions from across the world, according to a report published on Tuesday by cybersecurity services and training provider root9B. APT28 has been around since at least 2007. The threat actor, analyzed by several security firms over the past months, is known under various names, including Pawn Storm, Sednit, Fancy Bear, Tsar Team, and Sofacy. A report published by FireEye in October 2014 showed a direct link between the advanced persistent threat (APT) group and Russia. FireEye noted in that report that APT28 had not been seen trying to steal and profit from financial account information. However, root9B says it has uncovered plans by the threat group to target international financial institutions. The list of organizations that appear to be targeted by the attackers includes Bank of America, TD Canada Trust, Regions Bank, the United Nations Children’s Fund, United Bank for Africa, Commercial Bank International (CBI) in the United Arab Emirates, and possibly Germany-based Commerzbank. The security firm says it has notified authorities in the United States and the UAE, and the security teams of the targeted financial institutions of APT28’s plans. “While none of the targeted organizations are clients of root9B, we felt it imperative to disclose the findings to them, and as broadly as possible to the security community,” said Eric Hipkins, CEO of root9B. The security firm said it discovered the threat group’s plans at the end of April during routine security analysis. Researchers stumbled upon a spear-phishing domain aimed at the UAE-based financial organization. The domain attracted the attention of experts because it was hosted on a server known to be associated with state-sponsored operations. They also discovered several pieces of new malware with signatures specific to APT28. The attackers registered several CBI phishing domains using fictitious information. The phishing domains for the other targeted banks were discovered by researchers because they had been registered using similar fake registration details. Researchers determined that the malicious actors started preparations for this campaign back in June 2014. “While the continued vector of the attack remains unclear, root9B assesses that it will most likely be a spear-phishing campaign. This attack vector will likely use a well-crafted email containing either a malicious file or web hyperlink to what recipients believe is the actual website; but is instead a fake landing page,” the security firm wrote in its report. Experts noted that while such phishing websites are usually utilized to trick users into handing over personal and financial information, it’s possible that the threat group could try to use the servers hosting the phishing pages to deliver malware that gives them access to victims’ networks. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Tracking & Law Enforcement
Microsoft Patches Zero-Days Exploited by Russia-Linked Hackers Microsoft’s Patch Tuesday updates for May 2017 address tens of vulnerabilities, including several zero-day flaws exploited by profit-driven cybercriminals and two notorious Russia-linked cyber espionage groups. The company has resolved more than 50 security holes affecting Windows, Internet Explorer, Edge, Office, the .NET framework, and Flash Player, for which Adobe released an update on Tuesday. A blog post published by Microsoft revealed that the company had worked with ESET and FireEye to protect customers against attacks leveraging vulnerabilities in the Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) filter in Office. Both ESET and FireEye have released reports on the attacks they have observed. FireEye has spotted attacks launched by a couple of cyber espionage groups believed to be connected to the Russian government and an unknown financially-motivated threat actor. According to the security firm, the group known as Turla, Waterbug, KRYPTON and Venomous Bear has been exploiting an Office remote code execution (RCE) vulnerability tracked as CVE-2017-0261 to deliver a custom JavaScript implant dubbed by FireEye “SHIRIME.” The same vulnerability has also been exploited by profit-driven cybercriminals to deliver a new variant of the NETWIRE malware, a threat used by multiple actors over the past years. The Turla group’s attacks also leveraged CVE-2017-0001 for privilege escalation, while the cybercriminals used CVE-2016-7255 for privilege escalation. Both FireEye and ESET have observed attacks involving zero-day vulnerabilities launched by the group known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear, Sofacy, Sednit and Strontium. This Russia-linked group, which some believe could be behind the recent election cyberattacks in France, has leveraged an Office RCE flaw (CVE-2017-0262) and a Windows privilege escalation (CVE-2017-0263). The malware delivered in these attacks is tracked by the security firms as Seduploader and GAMEFISH. Microsoft pointed out that the Turla attacks were first spotted in March, and customers who had up-to-date systems had already been protected as CVE-2017-0001 was patched earlier that month. In April, the company also rolled out a defense-in-depth protection designed to prevent EPS attacks by disabling the EPS filter by default. The updates released by the company this month patch the EPS-related vulnerabilities in Office (CVE-2017-0261 and CVE-2017-0262) to ensure that customers who need to use EPS filters are still protected. Another zero-day patched by Microsoft on Tuesday is CVE-2017-0222, a memory corruption in Internet Explorer that can be exploited for remote code execution. No information has been shared on the attacks leveraging this security hole. The tech giant has also addressed four vulnerabilities that have been publicly disclosed. The list includes an RCE flaw in the JavaScript engines used by web browsers (CVE-2017-0229), a SmartScreen filter-related browser spoofing vulnerability (CVE-2017-0231), a privilege escalation in Edge (CVE-2017-0241), and a Mixed Content warnings bypass in Internet Explorer (CVE-2017-0064). Related: Turla Cyberspies Developing Mac OS X Malware Related: Microsoft Patches Many Exploited, Disclosed Flaws Related: Microsoft Patches Office, IE Flaws Exploited in Attacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Incident Response Risk Management Virus & Malware Malware Vulnerabilities Cybercrime
Russia-linked Hackers Exploit Lojack Recovery Tool in Attacks Recently discovered “Lojack” agents containing malicious command and control (C&C) servers point to the Russian cyber-espionage group Sofacy, according to NETSCOUT Arbor. Previously known as Computrace, Lojack is a legitimate laptop recovery solution used by companies looking to protect assets should they be lost or stolen. It can be used to locate and lock devices remotely, as well as to delete files. Lojack represents a great double-agent because it is usually considered legitimate software but also allows for remote code execution, NETSCOUT Arbor's Security Engineering and Research Team (ASERT) points out. Moreover, the tool can survive hard drive replacements and operating system re-imaging. Many of the anti-virus vendors in VirusTotal don’t flag the Lojack executable as malicious, but rather consider it as “not-a-virus” or “Risk Tool.” Additionally, with binary modification of the “small agent” considered trivial, it’s clear that attackers would consider the tool a viable target. “With low AV detection, the attacker now has an executable hiding in plain sight, a double-agent. The attacker simply needs to stand up a rogue C&C server that simulates the Lojack communication protocols. Finally, Lojack’s ‘small agent’ allows for memory reads and writes which grant it remote backdoor functionality when coupled with a rogue C&C server,” ASERT notes. The ASERT security researchers observed five Lojack agents that were pointing to four different suspected domains, three of which have been tied to Sofacy. Also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sednit and Strontium, the threat actor is believed to have targeted the 2016 U.S. presidential election, as well as Ukraine and NATO countries. In fact, the group heavily targeted NATO in early 2017, including with zero-day exploits. The group was also observed shifting focus towards the Middle East and Central Asia last year. In March 2018, a security researcher revealed that Sofacy attacks overlap with other state-sponsored operations, after the group’s Zerbrocy malware was found on machines compromised by Mosquito, a backdoor associated with the Turla threat actor. “ASERT assesses with moderate confidence that the rogue Lojack agents are attributed to Fancy Bear based on shared infrastructure with previous operations,” the security researchers say. Only the presence of a rogue C&C makes the samples malicious, as attackers are merely hijacking the communication used by Lojack, the researchers say. Several of the domains extracted from the rogue agents trace back to Sofacy operations: elaxo[.]org, ikmtrust[.]com, and lxwo[.]org (tied to the group last year), and sysanalyticweb[.]com (spotted only recently). Although the hijack of the software for malicious purposes is a publicly known tactic, similarities in the binary comparisons and infrastructure analysis increase the possibility that the same actor was behind them. The domains are associated with the same Lojack agent utilizing the same compile time, contain nonsensical Registrant information (the same information found in multiple fields), a similar nonsensical word used in the Registrant Name field is also used for the Registrant Organization (the field is often skipped, but this actor regularly utilizes both fields). “Hijacking legitimate software is a common enough tactic for malicious actors. What makes this activity so devious is the binaries hijacked being labeled as legitimate or simple ‘Risk Tool’, rather than malware. As a result, rogue Lojack samples fly under the radar and give attackers a stealthy backdoor into victim systems,” ASERT concludes. Related: Researchers Dissect Tool Used by Infamous Russian Hacker Group Related: Sofacy Attacks Overlap With Other State-Sponsored Operations (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Endpoint Security NEWS & INDUSTRY
Attackers Using USB Malware to Steal Data From Air-Gapped Networks Cyber Espionage Group Uses USB Malware to Steal Data From Closed Networks Researchers from security firm ESET have analyzed a malicious tool used by a notorious cyber espionage group to steal valuable information from air-gapped networks. Isolating a sensitive computer network from the Internet can be an efficient security measure, but threat actors have found ways to get around it. A group believed to be linked to the Russian government, know as "Sednit," "APT28" and "Sofacy," appears to have developed the tools necessary to achieve this task. In a recent report on the attacks launched by APT28 against European governments, militaries and security organizations, FireEye revealed that one of the tools used by the group is a modular family of implants called CHOPSTICK. Researchers identified one variant of CHOPSTICK that defeats closed networks by routing messages between local directories, the registry and USB drives. One such tool used by the threat group was analyzed by ESET. Dubbed Win32/USBStealer, the malware has been used since at least 2005 in campaigns against government organizations in Eastern Europe, researchers said. There are several variants of this threat, but the security firm has focused on analyzing the most sophisticated one. According to ESET, the USBStealer dropper initially infects a computer within the targeted organization that's connected to the Internet (Computer A). The dropper is disguised as a legitimate Russian application called USB Disk Security. The dropper monitors the infected device for removable drives. When a removable drive is detected, the malware is copied onto it, and its Autorun file is modified so that USBStealer is executed when the drive is inserted on a different computer. In this phase, the malware also marks the USB drive as having been used on a machine with an Internet connection. Once the infected drive is connected to an air-gapped computer (Computer B), the malware is transferred onto it. The machine's name is registered on the removable drive, a process which enables the attackers to map the devices they can reach. The attack only works if Autorun is enabled on the targeted computer. The feature was deactivated by Microsoft in 2009 with the release of a Windows update, but experts say the method could still work considering that air-gapped devices are in many cases out of date due to the lack of an Internet connection. When the USB drive is once again connected to Computer A, the malware operator drops a series of data exfiltration commands onto it. These commands will be executed as soon as the drive is connected again to Computer B. The malware is interested in files used by cryptographic applications, and files that appear to be associated with private software. The threat searches for files of interest everywhere on the infected machine, but it avoids folders created by various antiviruses. Once the stolen files are transferred back to Computer A, the attackers need to use a different piece of malware to copy the data to their own servers because USBStealer doesn't have such capabilities, ESET noted. Researchers say it's uncertain how the initial infection occurs, but a likely attack vector is spear phishing. FireEye has identified a spear phishing campaign that uses the USB Disk Security application as a lure. Related: "AirHopper" Malware Uses Radio Signals to Steal Data from Isolated Computers (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Data Protection Security Infrastructure
Sofacy Attacks Overlap With Other State-Sponsored Operations CANCUN - KASPERSKY SECURITY ANALYST SUMMIT - Attacks carried out by a Russian threat group appear to overlap with campaigns conducted by other cyberspies, including ones linked by researchers to China and the United States. Kaspersky Lab revealed last month that the Russian threat actor known as Sofacy, APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sednit and Strontium had shifted its focus from NATO member countries and Ukraine to Central Asia and further east, including China. On Friday, at Kaspersky’s Security Analyst Summit (SAS), researcher Kurt Baumgartner revealed that the group appears to be particularly interested in military, defense and diplomatic entities in the far east. Baumgartner also revealed that the attacks launched by Sofacy sometimes overlap with the operations of other state-sponsored cyberspies in terms of victims. For instance, researchers discovered Sofacy’s Zerbrocy malware on machines that had also been compromised by Mosquito, a backdoor associated with Turla, a different threat actor linked to Russia. Shared victims include diplomatic and commercial organizations in Europe and Asia. Sofacy’s SPLM malware (aka CHOPSTICK and X-Agent) was found on devices that had also been infected with other Turla malware, which often precedes SPLM. SPLM has also been spotted on the same systems as malware known to have been used by a China-linked actor known as Danti. According to Kaspersky, overlaps were generally found on systems belonging to government, technology, science, and military organizations in or based in Central Asia. Another interesting overlap was between Sofacy and the English-speaking Lamberts group, which is also known as Longhorn. Security firms revealed last year that this cyber espionage group had been using some of the Vault 7 tools leaked by WikiLeaks. These tools are believed to have been developed and used by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Kaspersky said it had identified Sofacy backdoors and malware associated with the Lamberts, specifically Grey Lambert, on a server belonging to a military and aerospace conglomerate in China. Researchers admit, however, that the presence of both Lamberts and Sofacy malware on the server could simply mean that the former planted a false flag, considering that the original delivery vector for the Sofacy tool remains unknown. It’s also possible that the Russian group exploited a previously unknown vulnerability, or that it somehow harnessed the Grey Lambert malware to download its own tools. The most likely scenario, according to experts, is that the Sofacy malware was delivered using an unknown PowerShell script or a legitimate app in which the attackers discovered a flaw. “Sofacy is sometimes portrayed as wild and reckless, but as seen under our visibility, the group can be pragmatic, measured and agile. Their activity in the East has been largely under-reported, but they are clearly not the only threat actor interested in this region, or even in the same targets,” Baumgartner said. “As the threat landscape grows ever more crowded and complex, we may encounter more examples of target overlap and it could explain why many threat actors check victim systems for the presence of other intruders before fully launching their attacks.” Kaspersky recently spotted the SPLM malware being used in an attack aimed at major air defense organization in China, while the Zebrocy tool has been used in high volume campaigns targeting entities in Armenia, Turkey, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Afghanistan, Mongolia, Japan and China. Related: Russia-Linked Spies Deliver Malware via DDE Attack Related: Russian 'Fancy Bear' Hackers Abuse Blogspot for Phishing (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
Tech Firms Target Domains Used by Russia-linked Threat Group Tech companies ThreatConnect and Microsoft are moving toward exposing and taking down domains associated with Russia-linked threat group known as Fancy Bear. Also tracked as APT28, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Tsar Team, Strontium and Sednit, the threat group has been associated with a variety of high-profile cyber-attacks aimed at government and other types of organizations worldwide. Last year, the threat group was said to have orchestrated election-related hacker attacks in the United States. The actor allegedly developed the so called XTunnel malware specifically to compromise the Democrat National Committee (DNC) network last year, and was said in February 2017 to be using brand new Mac malware to steal data. ThreatConnect says their team was able to identify “dozens of recently registered domains and IPs that have varying levels of association to the Russian APT.” Moreover, the security firm discovered three name servers the group most likely used for domains, which allows defenders to “proactively identify new domains that may be associated with Fancy Bear activity”. One of the domains, the security company reveals, is unisecproper[.]org, which was registered using the email address [email protected][.]com and is hosted on a dedicated server at the IP 92.114.92.134. The certificate used by this domain has been already associated (PDF) with Fancy Bear in operations targeting the DNC and German Parliament, which clearly indicates that the domain is associated with the group. Using the SSL certificate, ThreatConnect discovered recent IPs associated with Fancy Bear, along with numerous domains hosted on these IPs, also supposedly associated with the threat group. Some of these domains were discovered in previous investigations as well. The researchers also managed to find name servers used by Fancy Bear, including nemohosts[.]com, bacloud[.]com, and laisvas[.]lt. The investigation eventually led to the discovery of hundreds of domains associated with these name servers, tens of which were hosted on dedicated servers. The researchers note these are suspicious domains but note that “consistencies in registration and hosting tactics do not definitively associate many of these suspicious domains with previous malicious, Fancy Bear activity.” “It's important to caveat our confidence in these indicators' association to FANCY BEAR activity. For many of those indicators that we've included here, we don't know whether they have actually been used maliciously. But if known bad is all that you are worried about or interested in, then you'll always be at least one step behind the attacker. Only by leveraging intelligence to identify and exploit our adversaries' tactics can we move from a reactive, whack-a-mole state to a proactive, informed defense,” ThreatConnect says. Microsoft, in the meantime, is taking legal action against Fancy Bear: the tech company filed a civil lawsuit in August 2016, seeking to seize command-and-control (C&C) domains used by the group. According to court documentation Microsoft made public, there are hundreds of domains containing Microsoft trademarks that it is looking to take control of. The actors failed to appear in a federal court in Virginia to defend themselves, and Microsoft is pushing for a default judgment in its favor. By seizing the domains, Microsoft would be able to cut the group off from communicating with infected systems. “Microsoft seeks a preliminary injunction directing the registries associated with these Internet domains to take all steps necessary to disable access to and operation of these Internet domains to ensure that changes or access to the Internet domains cannot be made absent a court order and that all content and material associated with these Internet domains are to be isolated and preserved pending resolution of the dispute. Microsoft seeks a permanent injunction, other equitable relief and damages,” Microsoft notes. Previously, Microsoft used legal action to take down botnets. In 2012, as part of Operation b71, the company seized C&C servers associated with the notorious Zeus family of malware. In 2014, in an attempt to take down the Bladabindi (njRAT) and Jenxcus (NJw0rm) malware families, the company seized 23 No-IP domains to route bad traffic to a sinkhole. Related: DHS Uses Cyber Kill Chain to Analyze Russia-Linked Election Hacks Related: Russian Cyberspies Use New Mac Malware to Steal Data (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
Russian Cyberspies Change Tactics in Recent Campaign Recently observed attacks orchestrated by the Russian threat group Sofacy have revealed a change in tactics and new iterations of previously known tools, according to Palo Alto Networks researchers. Also tracked as APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sednit and Strontium, the cyber-espionage group has been associated with numerous attacks worldwide, including those targeting the 2016 presidential election in the United States, assaults on Ukraine and NATO countries, and attacks on targets in Asia. Earlier this year, security researchers revealed that Sofacy’s campaigns overlap with other state-sponsored operations, and also dissected a new backdoor employed by the group. Dubbed Zebrocy, the new malware consists of a Delphi downloader and an AutoIT stage, ESET reported in April. Now, Palo Alto reveals that a C++ version of Zebrocy has also been seen in attacks. Furthermore, the security researchers discovered Sofacy attacks that leveraged the Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) exploit technique to deliver different payloads than before. The campaign, Palo Alto says, breaks out of the previously observed patterns in that it no longer targets only a handful of employees within a single organization. Instead, the attackers sent phishing emails to “an exponentially larger number of individuals” within the target company. “The targeted individuals did not follow any significant pattern, and the email addresses were found easily using web search engines. This is a stark contrast with other attacks commonly associated with the Sofacy group,” the security researchers explain. Not only did the group launch a large number of Zebrocy attacks, but it also started using DDE to deliver payloads such as the Zebrocy backdoor and the open-source penetration testing toolkit Koadic (this is the first time it leverages this tool). Previously, the group used the DDE technique for the distribution of Seduploader. As detailed in a February report, Palo Alto also discovered that the group was hiding infrastructure using random registrant and service provider information for each attack and that they deployed a webpage on each of the domains. The artifact led to the discovery of an attack campaign using the DealersChoice exploit kit, as well as another domain serving the Zebrocy AutoIT downloader. Eventually, this led to the discovery of the C++ variant of the Zebrocy downloader tool, as well as to “evidence of a completely different payload in Koadic being delivered as well.” The Delphi backdoor delivered as the final payload in Zebrocy attacks was found hosted at IP address 185.25.50[.]93, the researchers say. From this command and control (C&C) IP, the researchers discovered another hard-coded user agent being used by Zebrocy. Several samples of the backdoor employing the user agent were observed targeting the foreign affairs ministry of a large Central Asian nation. One other sample used a different user agent, which the researchers determined was from a secondary payload retrieved by the malware. The researchers eventually discovered over forty additional Zebrocy samples, several of which were targeting the same Central Asian nation. Two weaponized Office documents leveraging DDE were used to target a North American government organization dealing with foreign affairs with the Zebrocy AutoIT downloader, and the previously mentioned large Central Asian nation, but with a non-Zebrocy payload this time, namely Koadic. “Sofacy is carrying out parallel campaigns to attack similar targets around the world but with different toolsets. The Zebrocy tool associated with this current strain of attacks is constructed in several different forms based on the programming language the developer chose to create the tool. We have observed Delphi, AutoIt, and C++ variants of Zebrocy, all of which are related not only in their functionality, but also at times by chaining the variants together in a single attack,” Palo Alto concludes. Related: Researchers Dissect Tool Used by Infamous Russian Hacker Group Related: Sofacy Attacks Overlap With Other State-Sponsored Operations (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Phishing Malware
DHS Uses Cyber Kill Chain to Analyze Russia-Linked Election Hacks DHS Publishes Enhanced Analysis Report on GRIZZLY STEPPE Activity The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) on Friday published a new report providing additional indicators of compromise (IOC) and analysis using the cyber kill chain to detect and mitigate threats from the Russia-linked "GRIZZLY STEPPE" hackers. On Dec. 29, 2016, the DHS and FBI published an initial Joint Analysis Report (JAR) detailing the tools and infrastructure used by Russian hackers designated by DHS as “GRIZZLY STEPPE” in attacks against the United States election. The previous report, however, didn’t deliver on its promise, security experts argued. While the original report included a series of IOCs, some said that they were of low quality, had limited utility to defenders, and were published as a political tool attempting to connect the attacks to Russia. The new report is described by DHS as an Analytical Report (AR) providing a “thorough analysis of the methods threat actors use to infiltrate systems” in relation to the GRIZZLY STEPPE hackers. The report provides additional details on IOCs, along with analysis along phases of the cyber kill chain, and suggests specific mitigation techniques that could be used to counter GRIZZLY STEPPE attackers. Utilizing the Cyber Kill Chain to Analyze GRIZZLY STEPPE DHS analysts leveraged the Cyber Kill Chain framework created by Lockheed Martin that describes the phases of an attack. The report summarizes the activity of the campaign using each phase of the Cyber Kill Chain, which are Reconnaissance, Weaponization, Delivery, Exploitation, Installation, Command and Control, and Actions on the Objective. The report also provides detailed host and network signatures to help defenders detect and mitigate GRIZZLY STEPPE related activity, including additional YARA rules and IOCs associated with the attacks. The DHS has previously said that two different actors participated in the political attacks, one in the summer of 2015, namely APT29, and the other in spring 2016, namely APT28. The former is also known as Cozy Bear, or CozyDuke, while the latter is referred to as Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team. DHS recommends that security teams read multiple bodies of work from various sources concerning GRIZZLY STEPPE. “While DHS does not endorse any particular company or their findings, we believe the breadth of literature created by multiple sources enhances the overall understanding of the threat. DHS encourages analysts to review these resources to determine the level of threat posed to their local network environments,” the agency said. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Incident Response
Russia-linked Hackers Directly Targeting Diplomats: Report The Russia-linked cyber espionage group Sofacy has been targeting foreign affairs agencies and ministries worldwide in a recently discovered campaign, Palo Alto Networks warns. The hacking group, also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sednit, Tsar Team, and Strontium, has been highly active recently, and new evidence shows activity directly targeting diplomats in North America and Europe, including those at a European embassy in Moscow. Sofacy was supposedly behind the attacks on the 2016 United States presidential election, but also hit Ukraine and NATO countries. In fact, the group heavily targeted NATO in early 2017, when it even used zero-day exploits, but then started to shift its focus towards the Middle East and Central Asia. Palo Alto Networks has now uncovered two parallel efforts within a new Sofacy campaign, each using its own set of tools for attacks. One of the efforts was observed in the beginning of February 2018 to use phishing emails as the attack vector, to target an organization in Europe and another in North America. The message spoofed the sender address of Jane’s by IHSMarkit, a well-known supplier of information and analysis. The email carried an attachment claiming to be a calendar of events relevant to the targeted organizations, but was a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet containing a malicious macro script. The attackers used a white font color to hide the content of the document to the victim and lure them into enabling macros. Once that happens, the script changes the text color to black. The macro also retrieves content from several cells to obtain a base64 encoded payload, writes it to a text file in the ProgramData folder, and leverages the command certutil -decode to decode the contents to an .exe file, which it runs after two seconds. The executable is a loader Trojan that decrypts an embedded payload (DLL) and saves it to a file. Next, it creates a batch file to run the DLL payload, and writes the path to the batch file to a registry key, for persistence. The installed malware is a variant of SofacyCarberp, which has been extensively used by the threat group in attacks. The malware performs initial reconnaissance by gathering system information, then sends the data to the command and control (C&C) server and fetches additional tools. Both the loader and the SofacyCarberp variant used in the attack are similar to samples previously analyzed, yet they include several differences, such as a new hashing algorithm to resolve API functions and find browser processes for injection, and modified C&C communication mechanisms. The security researchers also believe the group may have used the Luckystrike open-source tool to generate the malicious document and/or the macro, as the macro in the document closely resembles those found within the Microsoft PowerShell-based tool. The only difference between the two, besides random function name and random cell values, would be the path to the “.txt” and “.exe” files. The security researchers also noticed that the Sofacy group registered new domains as part of the campaign, but that it used a default landing page they employed in other attacks as well. The domain used in this attack, cdnverify[.]net was registered on January 30, 2018. “No other parts of the C&C infrastructure amongst these domains contained any overlapping artifacts. Instead, the actual content within the body of the websites was an exact match in each instance,” Palo Alto notes. “The Sofacy group should no longer be an unfamiliar threat at this stage. They have been well documented and well researched with much of their attack methodologies exposed. They continue to be persistent in their attack campaigns and continue to use similar tooling as in the past. This leads us to believe that their attack attempts are likely still succeeding, even with the wealth of threat intelligence available in the public domain,” Palo Alto concludes. Related: Russian Cyberspies Shift Focus From NATO Countries to Asia Related: Russia-Linked Spies Deliver Malware via DDE Attack (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
Russian Hackers Favor Windows, Office Exploits: Report Adobe’s Flash Player might be the most targeted product when criminal exploit kits are involved, but Microsoft products such as Office, Windows and Internet Explorer take center stage when Russian advanced persistent threat (APT) groups are involved. According to a new report from Recorded Future, 55% of vulnerabilities exploited by these groups are targeting versions of Office, Windows and Internet Explorer. State-sponsored actors have been focusing on widely adopted software, and only 46% of the known Russian APT exploited vulnerabilities can be also found in exploit kits used by cyber criminals. Dubbed “Running for Office: Russian APT Toolkits Revealed,” Recorded Future’s report also reveals that there might be no connection between APT28 and APT29, two of the most active actors. The former, which is also known as Fancy Bear, Operation Pawn Storm, Sednit, and Sofacy, is associated by many with Russian military intelligence (GRU), while the latter, also called Cozy Bear, The Dukes, and Office Monkeys, is possibly associated with the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB). Of the 33 known exploited product vulnerabilities that various Russian APTs use to steal information, 27 are tied to APT28 (22) and APT29 (5), but they don’t overlap, although both were found to have compromised the Democratic National Committee (DNC) network. APT29 managed to infiltrate the network last year, while APT28 compromised it in April this year. Alongside these two groups, the alleged Russian state-sponsored groups Energetic Bear (also known as Dragonfly, Group 24, Koala Team) and Turla (aka Snake, Ouroboros, Carbon) also regularly target Microsoft products, the report claims. The massive user bases these products enjoy make them targets of choice: Windows has over 1.5 billion users, while Office has over 1.2 billion. In addition to Microsoft products, these groups also focus on exploiting vulnerable Adobe software, including Flash Player and Acrobat, Oracle products, such as Java, Mozilla applications, and community software. According to Recorded Future’s report, only 73% of vulnerabilities targeted by Russian APTs have public exploits available on portals such as Metasploit, Exploit Database and Github. Some of these vulnerabilities include CVE-2015-1701 and CVE-2015-3043, both associated with APT28 last year, CVE-2015-7645, patched in October by Adobe, and CVE-2015-1641, currently one of the most popular Office flaws, alongside CVE-2015-2545. CVE-2012-0158, another highly abused vulnerability in Office, is also targeted by these groups. Although these groups are still targeting vulnerabilities discovered seven or six years ago (such as CVE-2009-1123, CVE-2010-3333, and CVE-2010-4398) in Microsoft products, they don’t use flaws that have been reported this year. The only new exploit is CVE-2016-0728, used by APT28 to target Linux machines. The attack tactics employed by these groups are similar to those used by other threat actors, such as spear-phishing, spoofed domains supporting credential phishing, social engineering and watering hole attacks. The security researchers claim that Office and Acrobat are popular targets among them because of attacks that use attachments in spear-phishing emails. Of the 33 analyzed vulnerabilities, 8 impact Office/Acrobat. “Heavy Russian APT use of Office and Adobe PDF exploits may be in line with the more targeted nature of state-sponsored attacks. Criminal campaigns such as ransomware play a numbers game, while state-sponsored attacks focus on specific organizations and information,” the report reveals. When looking at the 22 exploits used by APT28 and the 5 employed by APT29, researchers discovered that they are different, meaning that the two groups are not connected. Previous reports also suggested that the two groups do not coordinate or share resources and infrastructure. Although both actors infiltrated DNC, they did so by unwittingly stealing the same set of credentials, researchers say. Related: XTunnel Malware Specifically Built for DNC Hack Related: Hacking of DNC Raises Fears of Cyber Attack on U.S. Election (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Previous Columns by SecurityWeek News:Privacy PolicySecurityWeek's ICS Cyber Security Conference Returns to Singapore With Strong LineupRSA Webinar: 6 Keys to Successful Identity Assurance2017 ICS Cyber Security Conference Call for Speakers Open Through August 15RSA Webinar: Evolution from Two-Factor Authentication to Identity Assurance 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Russian Hackers Infiltrated German Ministries' Network: Report Berlin - Russian hackers have infiltrated Germany's foreign and interior ministries' online networks, German news agency DPA reported Wednesday quoting unnamed security sources. The hacker group known as APT28 -- which has been linked to Russia's GRU military intelligence and accused of attacks on Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign -- managed to plant malware in the ministries' networks for possibly as long as a year, the news agency said. German security authorities only detected the online spying in December, it said, adding that an isolated government IT network had also been hit. If confirmed, the attack would be the biggest to hit the German government. Top security officials had repeatedly warned during Germany's 2017 general elections that Russia hackers may seek to disrupt the polls. While authorities did not have concrete proof, they have pinned the malware attack that crippled the Bundestag parliamentary network in 2015 for days on the APT28, also known as "Fancy Bear" or "Sofacy". The attack netted 17 gigabytes of data which, officials feared, could be used to blackmail MPs or discredit them. Amid the rising frequency of attacks, Germany's defence ministry in 2016 set up a cyber department to coordinate a response to online intrusions. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Pawn Storm Attackers Target MH17 Plane Crash Investigators Organizations tasked with investigating the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 have been targeted by the Russia-linked threat group known as Pawn Storm, Trend Micro reported on Thursday. Flight MH17, traveling from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, crashed on July 17, 2014 after being hit by a Russian-made missile while flying over a conflict zone in eastern Ukraine. The investigation into the incident was led by the Dutch Safety Board (DSB), which published a report on the crash of MH17 on October 13. According to Trend Micro researchers, the Pawn Storm cyber espionage group (also known as Sednit, APT28, Fancy Bear, Sofacy and Tsar Team) targeted the DSB both before and after the organization published its report on the incident. “We believe that a coordinated attack from several sides was launched to get unauthorized access to sensitive material of the investigation conducted by Dutch, Malaysian, Australian, Belgian, and Ukrainian authorities,” researchers said. The security firm discovered that the attackers set up fake Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) and VPN servers designed to mimic servers of the Dutch Safety Board most likely in an effort to phish the credentials of the organization’s staff. The goal was to obtain credentials that they could use to access the legitimate SFTP and VPN servers. Trend Micro says this is the first time it has found direct evidence that an APT actor has targeted a VPN server. “The VPN server of the Safety Board looks to use temporary tokens for authentication. However, these tokens can be phished in a straightforward way and tokens alone do not protect against one-time unauthorized access by third parties, once the target falls for the phishing attack,” experts said. In addition to the DSB, the attackers also targeted one of the organization’s key partners using a rogue Outlook Web Access (OWA) server, a technique previously used by Pawn Storm in attacks aimed at defense companies in the United States. The security company says it has warned the targeted entity in an early stage of the attack so the attempt was probably blocked. Over the past couple of months, Pawn Storm has also taken an increased interest in Syrian opposition groups and Arab countries that object to Russia’s intervention in Syria. Trend Micro says the group has set up several fake OWA servers in an effort to target the military, the Foreign Affairs Ministries, and the Defense Ministries of these countries. The Russia-linked threat actor’s activities made the news earlier this month after researchers discovered that they had been using an Adobe Flash Player zero-day to target Foreign Affairs Ministries. Trend Micro also revealed this week that the group had used a Java zero-day patched by Oracle with the release of the October 2015 CPU in attacks aimed at the White House and NATO member countries. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Fysbis Backdoor Preferred by Pawn Storm Group to Target Linux Researchers at Palo Alto Networks have performed an in-depth analysis of Fysbis, the preferred Linux malware used by the Pawn Storm threat group. The simple, yet efficient tool is proving to be effective because Linux security in general is still a maturing area, the experts say. Pawn Storm is a well-known cyber espionage group believed to have ties to the Russian government. Also known as Sofacy, APT28 and Sednit, the group has been around since 2007, targeting government, military, and defense organizations around the world, as well as various Eastern European governments. Over the years, Pawn Storm has used a multitude of tools for its attack operations, such as zero-day exploits in Flash, Java or Microsoft Office, spear-phishing, and website compromise. Their tools target multiple operating systems, including Windows, OS X, Linux, and iOS, but Fysbis appears to be their malware of choice when it comes to infiltrating Linux systems. The tool, a modular Linux Trojan / backdoor that implements plug-in and controller modules as distinct classes, is not sophisticated, Palo Alto’s Bryan Lee and Rob Downs explain in a blog post. The malware includes 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Executable and Linking Format (ELF) binaries and can install itself onto a system with and without root privileges. The researchers note that the lack of sophistication displayed by this malware suggests that Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) actors don’t require advanced means to reach their objectives. They also note that, while these actors do own advanced malware and zero-day exploits, they often keep them in reserve and use the smallest amount of resources needed to meet their goals. The Fysbis analysis revealed that the malware checks the Linux version during installation, and runs a series of shell commands to establish persistency. Recently, the group behind the malicious program improved their obfuscation technique, to ensure that the installation information is no longer leaked in the clear, as had been the case prior. By looking at several malware samples, researchers discovered that, while some did beacon to domains previously known to be used for command and control (C&C) by the Pawn Storm group, others called back to new domains. The newly found C&C domain mozilla-plugins[.]com wasn’t previously associated with the group, nor was the IP address it resolves to. Palo Alto Networks believes that the domain and IP are associated to a newer campaign, although the malware samples show similarities at the code level and in terms of shared behavior. What is clear, however, is that while other adversaries seem hesitant to change their infrastructure, Pawn Storm did invest in additional resources to do so, although some Fysbis samples displayed the same type of behavior. According to Palo Alto Networks researchers, Fysbis has contributed to the success of associated attacks by the Pawn Storm / Sofacy group mainly because Linux security is missing key elements. They also note that expertise in the Linux platform is highly sought after across all industries, as the platform remains largely unknown even to enterprise IT specialists. Linux is used across a broad variety of environments, including homes, cloud, and the majority of Internet-facing web and application servers, while also being the foundation of the Android mobile platform. However, it also poses a high risk to organizations’ security posture because Linux malware and vulnerabilities do exist and are in use by advanced adversaries, while detection and prevention is not prevalent at this time. Related: Russian Cyberspies Use Updated Arsenal to Attack Defense Contractors Related: Multipurpose "Xunpes" Trojan Targeting Linux Systems Related: New Cross-Platform Backdoors Target Linux, Windows (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Previous Columns by SecurityWeek News:Privacy PolicySecurityWeek's ICS Cyber Security Conference Returns to Singapore With Strong LineupRSA Webinar: 6 Keys to Successful Identity Assurance2017 ICS Cyber Security Conference Call for Speakers Open Through August 15RSA Webinar: Evolution from Two-Factor Authentication to Identity Assurance 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
Russian 'Fancy Bear' Hackers Abuse Blogspot for Phishing The cyber espionage group known as Fancy Bear, which is widely believed to be backed by the Russian government, has been abusing Google’s Blogspot service in recent phishing attacks. Threat intelligence firm ThreatConnect spotted the use of the blogging service while analyzing attacks aimed at Bellingcat, a group of investigative journalists that uses open source information to report on various events taking place around the world. Fancy Bear, also known as Pawn Storm, APT28, Sofacy, Sednit, Strontium and Tsar Team, was first seen targeting Bellingcat in 2015 as part of a campaign aimed at entities investigating Russia’s involvement in the downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 in July 2014 as it was crossing a conflict zone in Ukraine. The latest attacks aimed at Bellingcat involved fake emails instructing users to change their Gmail passwords as a result of unauthorized activity on their account, and Dropbox invitations to view shared folders. The buttons included in these emails pointed to a randomly generated Blogspot subdomain set up to redirect visitors to a phishing page. The phishing sites used HTTPS and they were hosted on subdomains that may have tricked many individuals into thinking they were legitimate. Experts believe the attackers likely used Blogspot in an effort to get past spam filters. “A URL hosted on Google's own systems, in this case Blogspot, may be more likely to get past spam filters than URLs hosted on a third party IP address or hostname,” ThreatConnect researchers said in a blog post. Fancy Bear is believed to be behind many high profile attacks, including a campaign that may have attempted to interfere in last year’s presidential election in the United States. Researchers at SecureWorks reported last year that they had identified thousands of Gmail accounts targeted by the hackers. The security firm recently provided the entire list of accounts to The Associated Press, whose reporters have analyzed them in an effort to find who they belong to. They identified the email addresses of entities in 116 countries, including former U.S. Secretaries of State John Kerry and Colin Powell, NATO Supreme Commanders Air Force Gen. Philip Breedlove and Army Gen. Wesley Clark, defense contractors such as Raytheon and Lockheed Martin, U.S. politicians and intelligence officials, Ukrainian officials and the pope’s representative in Kiev, and Russian opponents of the Kremlin. Related: Russian Cyberspies Target Hotels in Europe Related: Russian Hackers Exploit Recently Patched Flash Vulnerability Related: Russian Hackers Target Montenegro as Country Joins NATO (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Email Security Phishing
Google Tightens OAuth Rules to Combat Phishing Following last week’s phishing attack against Gmail users, Google is planning tightened OAuth rules to prevent similar incidents from occurring. Phishing emails, which impersonate a trusted source to trick the recipient into opening a malicious attachment or clicking a suspicious link, have long been a favorite tool for attackers. Google’s email service blocks millions of phishing emails each day, but last week’s incident proved that the system isn’t invincible. The phishing attack tricked users into granting access to their contact information to a third-party application cleverly named “Google Docs.” The incident resulted in the attacker gaining access to all of the affected users’ email content, as well as in the phishing attack immediately propagating to all of the victim’s contacts. The phishing emails, which appeared to arrive from someone in the victim’s contact list, claimed to contain a link to Google Docs content that the sender wanted to share with the recipient. Once the user clicked on the link, they were taken to a legitimate Google sign-in page, where they were asked to authorize an app called “Google Docs,” thus allowing it to read, send, delete, and manage emails and contacts. Google was able to spot and block the attack fast, but the incident meant that immediate actions that users might have taken, such as changing passwords, had no effect. Because OAuth was used, the attackers still had access to the account, and only removing permissions for the offending app could solve the issue. “We have taken action to protect users against an email impersonating Google Docs, and have disabled offending accounts. We've removed the fake pages, pushed updates through Safe Browsing, and our abuse team is working to prevent this kind of spoofing from happening again,” Google said after the incident. Now, the company reveals that it is updating its policies and enforcement on OAuth applications to prevent similar attacks from happening in the future. Moreover, updates to Google’s anti-spam systems should help prevent similar campaigns, and augmented monitoring of suspicious third-party apps that request information from users should add an extra layer of security. “We’re committed to keeping your Google Account safe, and have layers of defense in place to guard against sophisticated attacks of all types, from anti-hijacking systems detecting unusual behavior, to machine learning models that block malicious content, to protection measures in Chrome and through Safe Browsing that guard against visiting suspicious sites,” Google says. What should be noted is that the concept of launching such an attack isn’t new. It was first presented in 2011 by André DeMarre, and then thoroughly detailed by Greg Carson in February 2017. In fact, the cyber espionage group known as Pawn Storm (aka Fancy Bear, APT28) was observed using the very same technique in the past. Trend Micro recently revealed that this actor’s phishing scheme employed an application dubbed Google Defender, while abusing “the same legitimate OAuth connection to exploit the user’s lack of knowledge of available services.” In an emailed statement to SecurityWeek, Jaime Blasco, Chief Scientist at AlienVault, shared a similar point of view: “This is similar to what APT28 (the group behind the DNS hack, France election groups attacks, etc) was using a while back. I don't believe they are behind this though because this is way too widespread. Many people/organizations have received similar attempts so this is probably something massive and less targeted.” According to Google, less than 0.1% of Gmail users were impacted by last week’s “Google Docs” incident, but, as Talos’ Sean Baird and Nick Biasini point out, this proof-of-concept did reveal that a convincing Google phish via OAuth is possible. To further protect users from such attacks, Google also announced anti-phishing security checks for Gmail for Android. Thus, users will be warned when clicking on suspicious links they receive via email, which should help prevent them from disclosing financial and personal information. Related: Google Docs Phishing Scam Doused After Catching Fire Related: Google to Revoke OAuth 2.0 Tokens Upon Password Reset (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Phishing
Sofacy Targets European Govt as U.S. Accuses Russia of Hacking Just as the U.S. had been preparing to accuse Russia of launching cyberattacks against its energy and other critical infrastructure sectors, the notorious Russia-linked threat group known as Sofacy was spotted targeting a government agency in Europe. The United States on Thursday announced sanctions against Russian spy agencies and more than a dozen individuals for trying to influence the 2016 presidential election and launching cyberattacks, including the destructive NotPetya campaign and operations targeting energy firms. The Department of Homeland Security and Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a joint technical alert via US-CERT last year to warn about attacks launched by a group known as Dragonfly, Crouching Yeti and Energetic Bear on critical infrastructure. Researchers previously linked Dragonfly to the Russian government and now the DHS has officially stated the same. US-CERT has updated its alert with some additional information. The new version of the alert replaces “APT actors” with “Russian government cyber actors.” The DHS said that based on its analysis of malware and indicators of compromise, Dragonfly attacks are ongoing, with threat actors “actively pursuing their ultimate objectives over a long-term campaign.” This is not the first time the U.S. has imposed sanctions on Russia over its attempt to influence elections. Russia has also been accused by Washington and others of launching the NotPetya attack last year. The Kremlin has always denied the accusations, but President Vladimir Putin did admit at one point that patriotic hackers could be behind the attacks. If Dragonfly and Sofacy (aka Fancy Bear, APT28, Sednit, Tsar Team and Pawn Storm) are truly operating out of Russia, they don’t seem to be discouraged by sanctions and accusations. On March 12 and March 14, security firm Palo Alto Networks spotted attacks launched by Sofacy against an unnamed European government agency using an updated variant of a known tool. Sofacy has been using a Flash Player exploit platform dubbed DealersChoice since at least 2016 and it has continued improving it. The latest version has been delivered to a government organization in Europe using a spear phishing email referencing the “Underwater Defence & Security” conference, which will take place in the U.K. later this month. What makes the new version of DealersChoice interesting, according to Palo Alto Networks, is the fact that it employs a clever evasion technique that has not been seen in the past. Older versions of DealersChoice loaded a malicious Flash object as soon as the bait document was opened. The latest samples, however, include the Flash object on page three of the document and it’s only loaded if users scroll down to it. This Flash object, displayed in the document as a tiny black box, contacts the command and control (C&C) server to download an additional Flash object that contains the actual exploit. Kaspersky reported last week that it had seen overlaps between attacks launched by Sofacy and campaigns conducted by other state-sponsored cyberspies, including ones linked to China and the United States. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY SCADA / ICS Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware Management & Strategy
Evidence Links Russia to Second Democratic Party Hack Researchers from two security firms have uncovered evidence linking a Russian threat actor to the cyberattack targeting the U.S. Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC). The DCCC is the second Democratic Party committee targeted by hackers over the past months. The first was the Democratic National Committee (DNC) which, according to several security companies, was targeted by two different Russia-linked advanced persistent threat (APT) actors: Cozy Bear, also known as Cozy Duke and APT29; and Fancy Bear, also known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Tsar Team, Strontium and Sednit. SecureWorks reported last month that Fancy Bear had targeted thousands of Google accounts, including ones belonging to people working for or associated with the DNC and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. WikiLeaks later published a large number of emails obtained by hackers from the systems of the DNC. The Democratic Party blamed Russia for the intrusion, claiming that it was trying to help Republican candidate Donald Trump, who has publicly challenged Russia to hack into Clinton’s emails. Russia denied any involvement and claimed it had detected espionage attempts aimed at roughly two dozen of its government and military organizations. Democratic Party officials revealed last week that the DCCC had also been breached in an attack similar to the one targeting the DNC, and researchers claim to have found evidence linking the attack to the Fancy Bear group. Experts from Fidelis Cybersecurity and ThreatConnect analyzed secure.actblues[.]com, a domain designed to spoof secure.actblue[.]com, the ActBlue website that handles donations for the DCCC. The actblues[.]com domain appears to have been used in the DCCC attack, but researchers have not been able to determined if it was leveraged for social engineering, phishing or to deliver malware. The security firms discovered that the email address used to register the actblues domain, [email protected][.]com, had been previously used to register three other domains linked to Fancy Bear. Furthermore, two name servers utilized by this email address to register suspicious domains have been tied to a fake domain leveraged in the DNC breach. The timing of the fake ActBlue domain’s registration also indicates a link to the DNC hack. Experts determined that the domain was registered on June 14, the day CrowdStrike published its initial report on the DNC breach. “This suggests that, after being outed, FANCY BEAR actors shifted their operation immediately to another target that might allow them to continue collection against Democratic figures involved in the U.S. election,” researchers said. Experts also analyzed the company whose name servers have been used to register the fake ActBlue domain. The firm, called I.T. Itch, claims to provide anonymous web and Bitcoin hosting, and private domain registration services. I.T. Itch says it ignores all data requests and takedown notices, which makes it ideal for malicious operations. Researchers have identified numerous domains that use Itch services and appear to be related to APT activity. Fidelis and ThreatConnect expect the hacker known as Guccifer 2.0 to come forward and take responsibility for the DCCC attack. Guccifer 2.0, who has taken credit for the DNC hack, has claimed to be a Romanian with no connection to the Russian government, but his interviews with the media suggest that he does not speak Romanian well, leading many to believe that this persona is used by Russia to throw investigators off track. Related: XTunnel Malware Specifically Built for DNC Hack Related: FBI Probes Democratic Email Hack, but is Russia to Blame? Related: FBI Investigating Democratic Party Email Hack (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Hackers Leak Olympic Committee Emails in Response to Russia Ban A group of hackers linked to Russia has leaked several emails apparently exchanged between officials of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and other individuals involved with the Olympics. The leak comes in response to Russia being banned from the upcoming Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Games in South Korea. The group, calling itself Fancy Bears and claiming to be a team of hacktivists that “stand for fair play and clean sport,” previously released confidential athlete medical records stolen from the systems of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), and also targeted the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF). One of their most recent leaks included emails and medical records related to football (soccer) players who used illegal substances. The first leaks from Fancy Bears came shortly after Russian athletes were banned from the 2016 Rio Olympics following reports that Russia had been operating a state-sponsored doping program. While Fancy Bears claim to be hacktivists, researchers have found ties between the group and Fancy Bear, a sophisticated Russian cyber espionage team also known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Sednit, Sofacy, Tsar Team and Strontium. The latest leak includes emails apparently exchanged between IOC officials and other individuals involved with the Olympics. Some of the messages discuss the recent decision to ban Russia from the upcoming Winter Games based on the findings of the IOC Disciplinary Commission. “These emails and documents point to the fact that the Europeans and the Anglo-Saxons are fighting for power and cash in the sports world. WADA headquartered in Montreal, Canada supported by the United States Olympic Committee declared the crusade against the IOC on the pretext of defending clean sport,” the hackers said. “However, the genuine intentions of the coalition headed by the Anglo-Saxons are much less noble than a war against doping. It is apparent that the Americans and the Canadians are eager to remove the Europeans from the leadership in the Olympic movement and to achieve political dominance of the English-speaking nations.” While the hackers claim the emails they leaked prove the accusations, a majority of the messages don’t appear to contain anything critical. Furthermore, Olympics-related organizations whose systems were previously breached by the hackers claimed at the time that some of the leaked files had been doctored. WADA representatives told Wired that Fancy Bears are looking to “undermine the work of WADA and others,” and claimed that everything they leaked this week is “dated.” WADA officially accused Russia of being behind previous attacks. It’s unclear how the emails have been obtained by the hackers, but the group has been known to launch phishing attacks involving fake WADA domains. It’s possible that they tricked some of the individuals whose emails have been compromised into handing over their credentials on a phishing site. Russia has been accused by several experts of disguising some of its cyber campaigns as hacktivism. For instance, a hacker using the moniker Guccifer 2.0 has taken credit for an attack on the U.S. Democratic Party, which may have influenced last year’s presidential election. Many believe the Fancy Bears attacks are Russia’s response to its athletes being banned. Perhaps unsurprisingly, articles from two major pro-Russia English-language news organizations suggest that the latest leak from Fancy Bears shows that Russia’s exclusion from the Olympics was politically motivated. Security firm McAfee reported last week that several organizations associated with the Olympics had received emails set up to deliver information-stealing malware, but it’s unclear who is behind the attacks. Related: Hackers Already Targeting Pyeongchang Olympics Related: Russian Cyberspies Accused of Attack on Olympics Anti-Doping Agency (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Privacy Virus & Threats Email Security Incident Response Data Protection Cybercrime Privacy & Compliance
Attack on Olympics Anti-Doping Agency Linked to Russia Recent cyberattacks targeting the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) have been linked by researchers to the notorious Russian threat actor known as Fancy Bear. WADA, a non-profit organization initiated by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and supported by national governments, is tasked with promoting, coordinating and monitoring the fight against drugs in sports. The organization warned stakeholders earlier this month that malicious actors had registered two fake WADA domains, Wada-awa.[org] and Wada-arna.[org], and leveraged them for phishing attacks designed to trick users into handing over their credentials for the Anti-Doping Administration and Management System (ADAMS). One of the users who fell for the scam was Yuliya Stepanova, a whistleblower who exposed widespread doping in Russian athletics. Following the exposure of a Russian state-sponsored doping program, many Russian competitors were banned from the Olympics and the country’s entire team was suspended from the upcoming Paralympics. Russia’s interest in the WADA seems to back the findings of threat intelligence firm ThreatConnect, which uncovered evidence that a threat actor believed to be sponsored by the Russian government is behind the attacks. An analysis of the fake WADA domains revealed that they were likely registered by the group known as Fancy Bear, APT28, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team. ThreatConnect’s investigation showed that the attackers also registered tas-cass.[org], which typosquats the official domain of the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). “We assess that the phishing and Stepanova’s compromise most likely are part of targeted activity by Russian actors in response to the whistleblower and the WADA’s recommendation to ban all Russian athletes from the Olympic and Paralympic games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,” researchers explained. “Successful operations against these individuals and organizations could facilitate Russian efforts to privately or publically intimidate them or other potential whistleblowers.” At around the same time as the WADA phishing attempts, a group calling itself Anonymous Poland leaked files allegedly stolen from the systems of WADA and CAS. While they haven’t found any definitive proof, circumstantial evidence suggests that these attacks could also be the work of a Russian group that used the Anonymous brand to throw investigators off track. Researchers also blamed Fancy Bear for the recent attacks on the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC). A hacker using the online moniker Guccifer 2.0 has taken credit for both attacks and leaked numerous documents to prove it. However, experts believe Guccifer 2.0 is just a “Russian propaganda effort,” not an independent hacker from Romania, as he claims to be. Related: XTunnel Malware Specifically Built for DNC Hack Related: More Evidence Links Russia to DNC Attack Related: Evidence Links Russia to Second Democratic Party Hack (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Putin: Patriotic Russians Could Be Behind Election Hacks Russian President Vladimir Putin says patriotic citizens may have launched politically motivated cyberattacks against foreign countries, but denied any government involvement in such operations. Following accusations that Russian state-sponsored hackers interfered with the recent elections in the United States, Putin was asked on Thursday at the International Economic Forum in St. Petersburg about the possibility of Russian hackers influencing the upcoming elections in Germany. Putin responded by comparing hackers to artists. “If artists get up in the morning feeling good, all they do all day is paint,” Putin said. “The same goes for hackers. They got up today and read that something is going on internationally. If they are feeling patriotic they will start contributing, as they believe, to the justified fight against those speaking ill of Russia.” The Russian president noted that while this is possible in theory, his country does not engage in such activities on a government level. Putin also highlighted that threat actors could launch attacks and make it look like the source was Russia – a task that he described as “very easy.” On the other hand, Putin said he was convinced that hackers cannot have a real impact on an election campaign. “We do not engage in this activity at the government level and are not going to engage in it. On the contrary, we try to prevent this from happening in our country,” he said. “At any rate, I believe that no hackers can affect the election campaign in any European country, nor in Asia or in America.” The United States has officially accused Russia of attempting to interfere with recent elections and an investigation has been launched to assess the impact of the cyberattacks on their outcome. Thomas Rid, a professor in the department of War Studies at King's College London, believes the comments made by Putin are strategic. Russian hackers are also believed to have targeted the political campaign of French President Emmanuel Macron. The attacks were uncovered by security firms, but the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) also claimed to have warned France of the attacks. The threat groups tracked as Fancy Bear (aka APT28, Pawn Storm, Sofacy Group, Sednit and STRONTIUM) and Cozy Bear (aka APT29, Office Monkeys and Cozy Duke) are widely believed to be associated with Russia. While many security firms refrain from making statements on attribution or simply point out that the hackers speak Russian, some companies have gone as far as to link them to Russian government agencies, such as the Federal Security Service (FSB), the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR), and the military intelligence agency GRU. Related: DHS Uses Cyber Kill Chain to Analyze Russia-Linked Election Hacks Related: Trump's Intel Bosses Reiterate - Russia Meddled in Election Related: Ex-CIA Chief Says He Warned Russia to Stay Out of Election (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Management & Strategy
Cyberspies Ramped Up Attacks After Exposure of Zero-Days The Russia-linked threat actor known as Pawn Storm ramped up its attacks against governments and embassies after seeing that researchers discovered the Windows and Flash Player zero-day exploits it had been using. In late October, Google disclosed a serious Windows kernel vulnerability that had been exploited in the wild. Microsoft was informed about the issue on October 21, but it only managed to release a patch this week. Microsoft was unhappy with Google’s decision, but it quickly provided some mitigations. Microsoft revealed in early November that the Pawn Storm group, which it calls Strontium, exploited the Windows flaw (CVE-2016-7255) in combination with a Flash Player vulnerability (CVE-2016-7855). Google also reported the Flash Player bug to Adobe on October 21, but unlike Microsoft, Adobe released a patch after only a few days. Trend Micro has been monitoring Pawn Storm, which is also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, Sednit, Sofacy and Tsar Team. According to the security firm, Pawn Storm initially used the two zero-days only against very high-profile targets. Then, after the existence of the flaws was disclosed and Adobe released patches, the threat actor sent several waves of spear-phishing emails to embassies and other government agencies. Starting with early November, the cyberspies used the zero-days in attacks aimed at various governments around the world. The vulnerabilities have been used against an increasing number of targets, which suggests that they started losing their value following Google’s disclosure. Trend Micro spotted several types of spear-phishing emails used in these attacks. Some of them appeared to advertise Defence IQ’s Cyber Threat Intelligence and Incident Response conference. The emails carried specially crafted RTF documents that included a malicious Flash file designed to download an exploit for CVE-2016-7855. Another attack involved emails with the subject line “European Parliament statement on nuclear threats.” These fake messages purported to come from the European Union’s media relations office and they included links that led to Pawn Storm’s exploit kit. Related: Zero-Day Patched by Microsoft Used for Malvertising Since 2014 Related: Russian Cyberspies Use "Komplex" Trojan to Target OS X Systems (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Adobe Patch Tuesday Updates Fix Only One Flash Player Flaw Adobe’s Patch Tuesday updates for January 2018 resolve only an information disclosure vulnerability affecting Flash Player. The flaw is tracked as CVE-2018-4871, it has been classified as “important,” and it has been assigned a priority rating of 2, which means it’s unlikely to be exploited in malicious attacks any time soon. The security hole has been described as an out-of-bounds read issue that can lead to information exposure. It affects Flash Player 28.0.0.126 and earlier on Windows, Mac, Linux and Chrome OS, and it has been patched with the release of version 28.0.0.137. The patch will also be included in the next Chrome release and Microsoft’s Patch Tuesday updates. Adobe says it has learned about the vulnerability from an anonymous researcher via Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative (ZDI). The number of vulnerabilities discovered by researchers in Flash Player has dropped significantly in the past months after Adobe announced its intention to kill the application by 2020. However, malicious actors are still finding and exploiting zero-day vulnerabilities in Flash. In October, shortly after Adobe announced that it had no Patch Tuesday updates, the company was forced to quickly release a fix for Flash Player after learning that a cyber espionage group from the Middle East had been leveraging a zero-day to deliver spyware. The same vulnerability was later exploited by the Russia-linked group APT28 (also known as Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team) in attacks aimed at government organizations and aerospace companies. Fortunately, this was apparently the only Flash Player zero-day exploited in 2017. Related: Adobe Accidentally Posts Private PGP Key Related: Adobe Patches Two Critical Flaws in Flash Player Related: Adobe Patches 'Business Logic Error' in Flash Player (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Adobe Patches Flash Zero-Day Exploited by Pawn Storm Adobe has released Flash Player updates to address the zero-day vulnerability exploited by the Russia-linked Pawn Storm threat group in attacks aimed at Foreign Affairs Ministries. Adobe initially planned on releasing a patch this week, but the company managed to roll out a fix sooner than anticipated. Flash Player 19.0.0.226 for Mac and Windows, and Flash Player 11.2.202.540 for Linux patch the vulnerability exploited in targeted attacks (CVE-2015-7645) and a couple of other type confusion flaws that could lead to arbitrary code execution (CVE-2015-7647, CVE-2015-7648). Trend Micro threats analyst Peter Pi was credited by Adobe for finding and analyzing the zero-day exploited in the wild, while Natalie Silvanovich of Google Project Zero was credited for analyzing the resolved issues. Pawn Storm used the zero-day to target Foreign Affairs Ministries from across the world. The attackers lured victims to websites containing the Flash Player exploit using spear-phishing emails. Once the exploit was successful, a variant of the Sednit malware, which is often used by Pawn Storm, was dropped onto the victim’s machine. The Pawn Storm cyber espionage group (also known APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, Sofacy and Tsar Team) has been around since at least 2007. The threat actor has targeted numerous military, government, and defense organizations, including NATO members and the White House. In a blog post detailing CVE-2015-7645, Pi noted that this is the first Flash Player zero-day exploited in the wild after Adobe introduced in July a series of mitigations. The mitigation techniques, developed in collaboration with Google Project Zero, are designed to prevent attacks leveraging “Vector/<*>” exploits. The introduction of the mitigations led to a decrease in the number of attacks, but the latest incident has demonstrated that attackers haven’t given up. While Adobe classifies CVE-2015-7645 as a type confusion vulnerability, Trend Micro’s Pi says this is a new type of flaw that the security firm calls “method confusion.” The weakness exists in the writeObject method of the ByteArray object. “The [analyzed] sample overwrote the length field of a ByteArray-based object to 0Xfffffff6. [The attackers] used this to read and write into arbitrary memory locations. The Vector.<*> mitigations are of no use here as the ByteArray length is not protected,” Pi explained. “Attackers need not rely on targeting Vector.<*> for exploits in the future. As this attack has shown, there are other objects that can be used (or abused) by attackers. Adobe should protect the ByteArray length and other objects that have the length property.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Hackers Target Czech Foreign Ministry's Email System Prague - The Czech foreign minister said Tuesday his office had fallen prey to hackers who worked their way into the email accounts of dozens of employees including himself. "Since early January we have known one of the attacks was partly successful as the hackers managed to penetrate the email system of the ministry," Lubomir Zaoralek told reporters. He added however that no classified information was compromised as hackers failed to get into the ministry's inner system. "The data leak was considerable. The attack was very sophisticated," Zaoralek said. "It must have been carried out from the outside, by another country. The way it was done bears a very strong resemblance to the attacks on the US Democratic Party's internet system," said the foreign minister, citing experts. In July 2016, the Democratic National Committee faced a leak of e-mails that Hillary Clinton's campaign blamed on Russia. In early January, US intelligence said Russian President Vladimir Putin had ordered a campaign of hacking and media manipulation aimed at undermining Clinton's presidential campaign and boosting Donald Trump. Last October, Czech police arrested a Russian hacker in Prague in cooperation with the FBI and accused him of staging cyber attacks on the United States. The hacker is in custody in the Czech Republic pending extradition to the United States or Russia as both countries have asked Prague to hand over the suspect. In neighboring Poland, the Rzeczpospolita daily reported Monday that a group of Russian hackers called APT28 had tried to attack local foreign ministry servers in December through emails pretending to be sent by the NATO secretary general. This group, also known as Pawn Storm, Sofacy and Fancy Bears, is believed to be behind other high-profile cyber attacks and to be linked to Russia's security services. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Windows Zero-Day Exploited in Attacks Aimed at Middle East One of the vulnerabilities patched by Microsoft with its latest Patch Tuesday updates is a Windows zero-day exploited by an advanced persistent threat (APT) group in attacks aimed at entities in the Middle East. The flaw, tracked as CVE-2018-8453, has been described by Microsoft as a privilege escalation issue related to how the Win32k component of Windows handles objects in memory. An authenticated attacker can exploit the vulnerability to take control of an affected system. The vulnerability was reported to Microsoft by Kaspersky Lab after one of the security firm's systems detected an exploitation attempt. Kaspersky said it had reported the vulnerability to Microsoft on August 17 – it's unclear why Microsoft waited so long to release a fix. According to Kaspersky, CVE-2018-8453 has been exploited by an APT group it tracks as FruityArmor. The exploit was executed by a malware installer for obtaining the privileges needed to gain persistence on the targeted system. The security firm said FruityArmor created a high quality and reliable exploit that would work on as many versions of Windows as possible, including Windows 10. Kaspersky has described the vulnerability as a use-after-free bug that is similar to CVE-2017-0263, a flaw patched by Microsoft back in May 2017 after it had been exploited by the Russia-linked threat actor known as APT28, Sofacy and Fancy Bear. Hackers packaged the CVE-2018-8453 exploit in a malware installer that requires system privileges to deploy its payload. The payload has been described as a "sophisticated implant used by the attackers for persistent access to the victims' machines." Kaspersky has seen the exploit being used against less than a dozen targets located in the Middle East. "So far, this campaign has been extremely targeted, affecting a very low number of victims in the Middle East region, probably persons of interest for the attackers. However, the victimology is not clear, especially with such a small number of victims involved," Kaspersky researchers explained. The company determined that FruityArmor is likely behind these attacks after discovering a PowerShell backdoor that in the past was only used by this APT group. In addition, some of the command and control (C&C) domains used in the latest campaign were also involved in past FruityArmor operations. A blog post published early on Wednesday by Kaspersky contains technical details on the vulnerability and how it has been exploited by FruityArmor. This is not the first time Kaspersky has come across a zero-day vulnerability exploited by FruityArmor. The hackers also exploited a Windows zero-day back in 2016, which Microsoft patched in October 2016 after being alerted by Kaspersky. At the time, the victims were researchers, activists and government-related individuals in Thailand, Iran, Algeria, Yemen, Saudi Arabia and Sweden. "We believe that although FruityArmor´s activity has been slowly increasing during the last two years, the extremely targeted nature of the attacks helps them fly below the radar," Kaspersky said. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware Vulnerabilities Cybercrime
Hackers Leak More Confidential Athlete Data The hacker group calling itself Fancy Bears has leaked another batch of athlete medical records stolen from the systems of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). The organization has confirmed the leak and again blamed Russia for the attack on its systems. Earlier this week, the Fancy Bears group, which claims to be affiliated with the Anonymous hacktivist movement, leaked the Rio Olympics test results and therapeutic use exemptions of several U.S. athletes who they accused of being unjustly allowed by the WADA to use banned substances. The list of affected athletes included gymnast Simone Biles, basketball player Elena Delle Donne, and tennis players Venus and Serena Williams, all of whom have denied any wrongdoing. The hackers announced on Thursday a new round of leaks targeting a total of 25 athletes from the United States, United Kingdom, Denmark, Russia, Poland, Czech Republic, Romania and Germany. “The list of doping addicts includes not only the athletes of the top Olympic teams but also those who compete for other countries,” the hackers said in a statement accompanying the leak. “We'll keep on telling the world about doping in elite sports. Stay tuned for new leaks.” WADA has confirmed that the leaked files are genuine and pointed out that the information was obtained after hackers accessed the organization’s Anti-Doping Administration and Management System (ADAMS) through compromised credentials obtained via email spear-phishing attacks. WADA insists that the Russia-linked cyberespionage group known as Fancy Bear, APT28, Pawn Storm, Sednit, Sofacy, Tsar Team and Strontium is behind the cyberattack. The organization reached this conclusion based on information provided by law enforcement and the timing of the attack. “Given this intelligence and advice [from law enforcement and IT security agencies], WADA has no doubt that these ongoing attacks are being carried out in retaliation against the Agency, and the global anti-doping system, because of our independent Pound and McLaren investigations that exposed state-sponsored doping in Russia,” said Olivier Niggli, director general of WADA. “We condemn this criminal activity and have asked the Russian Government to do everything in their power to make it stop.” Russia has repeatedly denied any involvement, but officials have complained about the lack of transparency and accused WADA of favoring some countries. News of the WADA hack emerged in August. At the time, threat intelligence firm ThreatConnect published a blog post detailing the connection between this attack and the Russian threat group APT28. APT28 is also believed to be responsible for the recent attacks on the U.S. Democratic Party. A hacktivist using the online moniker Guccifer 2.0 took credit for the Democratic Party breach, and while he claims to be a lone wolf from Romania, experts believe it’s just a persona used by Russian intelligence to throw investigators off track. Related: More Evidence Links Russia to DNC Attack (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Data Protection
Russian Cyberspies Accused of Attack on Olympics Anti-Doping Agency Hackers Leak Athlete Medical Data From Olympics Anti-Doping Agency The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has officially pointed the finger at a Russian cyberespionage group for breaching its systems and leaking sensitive athlete data, including confidential medical records, but a hacktivist group has also taken credit for the attack. WADA hacked via password phishing WADA, a non-profit organization founded by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and supported by national governments, informed stakeholders last month that malicious actors had registered two fake WADA domains which they had leveraged to phish credentials for the Anti-Doping Administration and Management System (ADAMS). Yuliya Stepanova, a whistleblower who exposed widespread doping in Russian athletics, was one of the victims of the attack. Researchers quickly found connections between the attack on WADA and the notorious Russia-linked threat actor known as Fancy Bear, APT28, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Tsar Team and Sednit. On Tuesday, WADA published a statement confirming that a Russian spy group was behind the attack on its systems. The organization doesn’t appear to have reached this conclusion on its own – it got the information from law enforcement authorities. WADA said the hackers used phished credentials to access athlete data, including test results from the Rio Games and Therapeutic Use Exemptions, some of which they published online. “WADA condemns these ongoing cyber-attacks that are being carried out in an attempt to undermine WADA and the global anti-doping system,” said Olivier Niggli, director general of WADA. “Let it be known that these criminal acts are greatly compromising the effort by the global anti-doping community to re-establish trust in Russia further to the outcomes of the Agency’s independent McLaren Investigation Report.” Russian espionage or hacktivism? The group that leaked the athlete data is calling itself “Fancy Bears’ international hacking team” and its website, fancybear.net, suggests that it’s affiliated with the Anonymous hacktivist movement. The hackers claim they have launched OpOlympics, a campaign whose goal is to show that famous athletes from the U.S. and other countries won medals at the Olympics by using substances banned by WADA. The group even accepts Bitcoin donations on its website. The group has so far leaked test results and other medical documents on American athletes, including gymnast Simone Biles, basketball player Elena Delle Donne, and tennis players Venus and Serena Williams. “After detailed studying of the hacked WADA databases we figured out that dozens of American athletes had tested positive,” the hackers said. “The Rio Olympic medalists regularly used illicit strong drugs justified by certificates of approval for therapeutic use. In other words they just got their licenses for doping. This is other evidence that WADA and IOC's Medical and Scientific Department are corrupt and deceitful.” Biles and Donne reacted to the data leak on Twitter, claiming they had been taking the WADA-banned substances for genuine medical conditions. The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) also published a statement backing the claims of the affected athletes. “The athletes haven’t [done anything wrong],” said USADA CEO Travis T. Tygart. “In fact, in each of the situations, the athlete has done everything right in adhering to the global rules for obtaining permission to use a needed medication. The respective International Federations, through the proper process, granted the permission and it was recognized by the IOC and USADA.” Russia has denied any involvement in the attack on WADA. However, it’s worth noting that this is not the first time the country has been accused of a cyberattack for which “hacktivists” take credit. When the U.S. Democratic Party’s systems were breached this summer, experts immediately pointed the finger at the APT28/Fancy Bear threat group, but a hacktivist using the online moniker “Guccifer 2.0” took credit for the attack. Now, evidence again seems to point at Russia and a hacktivist group calling itself “Fancy Bears’ Hacking Team” takes credit. In the case of Guccifer 2.0, who has claimed to be Romanian, although he has failed to prove it, some researchers believe he is actually a personna used by cyberspies to throw investigators off track. Related: More Evidence Links Russia to DNC Attack Related: Evidence Links Russia to Second Democratic Party Hack (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
State Election System Hacking Linked to Previous Attacks Researchers have found links between the recent cyberattacks on U.S. state election systems and previous operations targeting political and government organizations in Turkey, Ukraine and Germany. A flash alert issued by the FBI last month warned about a couple of attacks targeting board of election systems in two U.S. states. While the agency did not name the states, they are believed to be Illinois and Arizona, both of which shut down their voter registration systems this summer following cyberattacks. The FBI’s report included a list of IP addresses and penetration testing tools used by the attackers in their operations. Unnamed U.S. officials told the press that the attacks were conducted by Russia, just like the recent campaigns targeting the U.S. Democratic Party and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). Researchers at threat intelligence firm ThreatConnect have analyzed the IP addresses disclosed by the FBI and determined that one of them was previously used in spear-phishing campaigns aimed at the Justice and Development (AK) Party in Turkey, the Freedom Party in Germany, and the Ukrainian Parliament. The phishing campaigns, conducted between March and August 2016, leveraged an open source phishing framework named Phishing Frenzy. Researchers managed to access the attackers’ control panel and discovered a total of 113 emails written in Ukrainian, Turkish, German and English. Of these emails, 48 were typical phishing emails targeting Gmail accounts, while the rest were specifically designed to capture the attention of the recipient by purporting to come from an affiliate or an organization of interest. Some of the AK Party members targeted with the spear phishing emails also show up in the recent WikiLeaks dump of nearly 300,000 AK Party emails, but experts have not been able to determine if the two incidents are connected. In addition to links to previous attacks, ThreatConnect discovered some connections to Russia and operations believed to be sponsored by the Russian government. One of the domains hosting the phishing pages was registered with an email address associated with a domain known to be used by the Russian threat actor Fancy Bear, aka APT28, Pawn Storm, Sednit, Sofacy and Tsar Team. While researchers have not found any direct links to the Russian government or a known Russian state-sponsored actor, circumstantial evidence seems to point at Russia. First of all, intelligence collected from the targeted organizations could be highly useful for Russia’s diplomatic relations and military efforts. As for more technical evidence, experts discovered that six of the eight IP addresses disclosed by the FBI belong to a Russian hosting service, and one of them had previously hosted a Russian cybercrime market. Some of the IPs are owned by a company called FortUnix Networks. This firm’s infrastructure was also leveraged in BlackEnergy attacks targeting the Ukrainian power grid last year. Another piece of evidence is related to the penetration testing tools described in the FBI flash alert. Some of the tools were previously used by Anonymous Poland, a group that recently leaked files from the anti-doping agency WADA. The attackers claim to be hacktivists, but researchers suspect they might be a creation of a Russian APT that wants to hide its tracks. Related: Pawn Storm Group Targets Turkey Related: German Spy Service Says Russia Behind Major Cyber Attacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
FBI Attribution of 'VPNFilter' Attack Raises Questions Information shared by the FBI on the massive VPNFilter attack in which more than half a million devices have been compromised raises some interesting questions about the connection between Russia-linked hacker groups. The existence of VPNFilter was brought to light last week by Cisco Talos and several other cybersecurity firms. The botnet is powered by at least 500,000 hacked routers and network-attached storage (NAS) devices across 54 countries. The malware can intercept data passing through the compromised device, it can monitor the network for communications over the Modbus SCADA protocol, and also has destructive capabilities that can be leveraged to make an infected device unusable. Many of the hijacked devices are located in Ukraine and a separate command and control (C&C) infrastructure has been set up for devices in this country. Researchers also spotted code similarities to the BlackEnergy malware and pointed out that there are only a few weeks until Ukraine celebrates its Constitution Day, which last year coincided with the destructive NotPetya attack. All this has led experts to believe that VPNFilter may mean Russia is preparing for a new attack on Ukraine. Shortly after security firms published technical details on the attack, the U.S. Department of Justice announced that the FBI had seized toknowall.com, one of the C&C domains utilized by VPNFilter. A press release and court documents name the Russia-linked threat actor Sofacy as being behind the attack. While this is not surprising, one noteworthy piece of information is that U.S. authorities say Sofacy is also known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear, Sednit, X-Agent, and Sandworm. Sandworm, also tracked by some security companies as TeleBots, is a threat actor known to use the BlackEnergy malware in attacks aimed at industrial systems and it’s believed to be responsible for the 2015 power outage in Ukraine. However, Sandworm was until now seen as a separate group from Sofacy. SecurityWeek has reached out to the Justice Department and the FBI for clarifications, but the organizations say they “do not have a comment outside what is included in the DOJ press release.” Industry professionals, however, have offered some possible explanations as to why the FBI may see Sofacy and Sandworm as the same group. “Sandworm is a similar team whose interests overlap with APT 28. We believe these actors are related and act accordingly,” Craig Williams, director of outreach with Cisco Talos, told SecurityWeek. Vikram Thakur, principal research manager at Symantec Security Response, noted, “The intelligence community has the best shot at attributing attacks to individuals and organizations. Every security vendor groups attackers based on their own vantage into the attack landscape. “Keeping in mind that attack groups themselves share knowledge, expertise, and resources, we don’t have any reason to question the grouping of Sofacy, Sandworm, X-Agent, and others that the FBI listed in their affidavit to seize a domain related to VPNFilter.” Researchers at Kaspersky also found it curious that the FBI suggested Sandworm and Sofacy were one and the same. “This would suggest that Sandworm, also known as BlackEnergy APT, is regarded as subgroup of Sofacy by the FBI,” Kaspersky researchers said. “Most threat intel companies have held these groups separate before, although their activity is known to have overlapped in several cases.” Advice from the FBI and targeted device vendors Rebooting a router is typically enough to remove a piece of malware from the device. However, VPNFilter has some clever persistence mechanisms that help its stage 1 component survive a reboot. An alert issued on Friday by the FBI advises owners of small office and home office routers to reboot their devices to “temporarily disrupt the malware and aid the potential identification of infected devices.” “Owners are advised to consider disabling remote management settings on devices and secure with strong passwords and encryption when enabled. Network devices should be upgraded to the latest available versions of firmware,” the FBI said. The VPNFilter malware has been observed targeting devices from Linksys, MikroTik, Netgear, TP-Link and QNAP. All of these vendors have published advisories to warn their customers about the threat. There is no evidence that the malware exploits any zero-day vulnerabilities to hack devices. Affected vendors noted that the flaws targeted by VPNFilter have already been patched and advised customers to update the firmware on their devices. Related: Sofacy Attacks Overlap With Other State-Sponsored Operations (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare Network Security NEWS & INDUSTRY SCADA / ICS Virus & Threats Incident Response Wireless Security Virus & Malware Malware
More Evidence Links Russia to DNC Attack Several security firms have found evidence that the recent attacks against the Democratic National Committee (DNC), the formal governing body for the U.S. Democratic Party, were launched by Russia-linked threat groups. Threat intelligence firm CrowdStrike, which assisted the DNC’s investigation and cleanup efforts, reported last week that its incident response team uncovered evidence tying the attacks to two previously known advanced persistent threat (APT) groups. One of the groups is Russia-linked Cozy Bear, which is also known as CozyDuke and APT29. The actor is believed to have breached the DNC’s networks as far back as the summer of 2015 using an implant dubbed “SeaDaddy” and a PowerShell backdoor. The second group, also believed to be operating from Russia, is Fancy Bear, aka APT28, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team. The actor reportedly targeted the DNC in a separate attack in April 2016 using a piece of malware dubbed X-Agent and a network tunneling tool called X-Tunnel. CrowdStrike said it did not see any evidence that Fancy Bear and Cozy Bear had been collaborating or that they had known about each other’s operation. Shortly after the security firm made its findings public, a hacker using the online moniker “Guccifer 2.0” took credit for the attack and started leaking documents stolen from the DNC. The hacker mocked CrowdStrike for reporting that the attack was carried out by sophisticated groups and claimed that it was “very easy” for him to breach the organization’s systems. “Guccifer” is the nickname first used by 44-year-old Romanian national Marcel Lazar Lehel, who has been extradited to the United States after hacking the online accounts of several celebrities and politicians, including the email server used by presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. Guccifer 2.0 has set up a WordPress website and a Twitter account, which he has been using to release documents allegedly stolen from the DNC. On Monday, he threatened to leak a “dossier on Hillary Clinton” taken from DNC servers. However, CrowdStrike is not the only security firm to point the finger at Russian government-backed actors for the attack on the DNC. Fidelis has conducted an independent investigation of the malware leveraged by hackers and confirmed CrowdStrike’s findings. “Based on our comparative analysis we agree with CrowdStrike and believe that the COZY BEAR and FANCY BEAR APT groups were involved in successful intrusions at the DNC. The malware samples contain data and programing elements that are similar to malware that we have encountered in past incident response investigations and are linked to similar threat actors,” Fidelis said. ThreatConnect has analyzed one of the domains used by attackers for command and control (C&C) and discovered additional links to Fancy Bear. In March, the SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit (CTU), which tracks Fancy Bear as Threat Group-4127 (TG-4127), observed a spear-phishing campaign that leveraged Bit.ly shortened links to target email accounts connected to the upcoming presidential election in the United States, including accounts belonging to individuals working for or associated with Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the DNC. “CTU researchers do not have evidence that these spearphishing emails are connected to the DNC network compromise that was revealed on June 14. However, a coincidence seems unlikely, and CTU researchers suspect that TG-4127 used the spearphishing emails or similar techniques to gain an initial foothold in the DNC network,” SecureWorks researchers said. An analysis of the documents leaked by Guccifer has shown that the individual might be based in Russia, and experts have pointed out several reasons why Russia could benefit from the hack. While it’s possible that Guccifer 2.0 has nothing to do with the cyberspy groups, experts believe the persona might have been set up by Russian intelligence in an effort to throw investigators off track. CrowdStrike said it stands by its analysis and findings. “Whether or not this posting is part of a Russian Intelligence disinformation campaign, we are exploring the documents’ authenticity and origin. Regardless, these claims do nothing to lessen our findings relating to the Russian government’s involvement, portions of which we have documented for the public and the greater security community,” the company said. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
UK, Australia Blame Russia for Bad Rabbit, Other Attacks The United Kingdom and Australia have officially blamed Russia for several high profile attacks, including the Bad Rabbit ransomware campaign. A statement published by the U.K. government on Wednesday reveals that the country’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) has linked several cyber threat actors to Russia’s GRU military intelligence service. The NSCS believes that the GRU is behind the groups tracked by various security firms as APT28, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Sednit, Cyber Caliphate, Cyber Berkut, BlackEnergy, Voodoo Bear, Strontium, Tsar Team and Sandworm. While many of these names represent the same threat actor, the line between the operations carried out by various Russian groups often gets blurred, as shown by the recent VPNFilter attack. The NCSC says that the GRU is “almost certainly” responsible for the Bad Rabbit ransomware attack in October 2017, the August 2017 attack on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), the 2016 attack on the U.S. Democratic National Committee (DNC), and an attack on a small TV station in the UK in the summer of 2015. It’s worth noting that the U.S. has previously accused Russia of election-related hacks and even charged 12 intelligence officers. “The GRU’s actions are reckless and indiscriminate: they try to undermine and interfere in elections in other countries; they are even prepared to damage Russian companies and Russian citizens. This pattern of behaviour demonstrates their desire to operate without regard to international law or established norms and to do so with a feeling of impunity and without consequences,” said British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt. “Our message is clear: together with our allies, we will expose and respond to the GRU’s attempts to undermine international stability.” The Australian government has accused Russia’s GRU for the same attacks, but admitted that Australia itself was not significantly impacted by any of the campaigns. “Cyberspace is not the Wild West. The International Community – including Russia – has agreed that international law and norms of responsible state behaviour apply in cyberspace. By embarking on a pattern of malicious cyber behaviour, Russia has shown a total disregard for the agreements it helped to negotiate,” reads a statement from Australia’s prime minister and minister of foreign affairs. Australia says there must be consequences for these types of actions and public attribution is only the first step. “It is unprecedented that the government should so overtly point the finger directly at the GRU. They must be very confident of their facts, either due to some sort of technical ‘fingerprint’ in the attack vectors themselves, or perhaps through corroboration from various other intelligence sources,” Malcolm Taylor, Director Cyber Advisory at ITC Secure and a former senior British intelligence officer, told SecurityWeek. “But I think it’s also important to consider who benefits from attacks against these specific targets - WADA, Ukraine and the West in general. The answer to that question of course includes, and may indeed be limited to, Russia and Russian foreign policy interests. The mention of western businesses as targets should also be a reminder that foreign intelligence services do engage in commercial cyber espionage and we all need to take appropriate steps to manage that risk,” Taylor added. Related: Australia, Canada, Others Blame North Korea for WannaCry Attack Related: US Accuses Russian Government of Hacking Infrastructure Related: Norway Accuses Russia of Cyberattack (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Tracking & Law Enforcement Cybercrime Management & Strategy
Experts Doubt Russia Used Malware to Track Ukrainian Troops Experts have cast doubt on a recent report claiming that hackers linked to a Russian military intelligence agency used a piece of Android malware to track Ukrainian artillery units. A report published by threat intelligence firm CrowdStrike before Christmas revealed that the Russia-linked cyberespionage group known as Fancy Bear (aka APT28, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Tsar Team, Strontium and Sednit) modified a legitimate Android app used by the Ukrainian military. Specifically, researchers found an Android version of X-Agent, a piece of malware known to be used by Fancy Bear, embedded in an app developed by artillery officer Yaroslav Sherstuk to help military personnel reduce the time to fire D-30 howitzers. According to CrowdStrike, the malicious app, which had been distributed on Ukrainian military forums from late 2014 through 2016, was capable of accessing contact information, SMS messages, call logs and Internet data. The security firm believes these capabilities could have allowed Russia to track Ukrainian troops via the app. CrowdStrike also pointed to a report claiming that Ukraine had lost many D-30 guns in the past years, and speculated that this cyber operation may have contributed to those losses. Based on its investigation, the company is confident that Fancy Bear is connected to the Russian military, particularly the GRU foreign military intelligence agency. Sherstuk has called CrowdStrike’s report “delusional” and pointed out that the app is not open source. He says the application has been under his control and he personally oversees the activation of each installation. Jeffrey Carr, CEO of Taia Global and founder of the Suits and Spooks conference, has analyzed CrowdStrike’s report and, after contacting several other experts, he determined that the security firm’s arguments are flawed. According to Carr, while X-Agent may be used by Fancy Bear, the malware is not exclusive to the group. The X-Agent source code appears to have been obtained by several entities, including Ukrainian hacktivist Sean Townsend and the security firm ESET. The X-Agent variant found in the Ukraine military app has also been analyzed by Crysys, the Hungary-based security firm that has investigated several sophisticated pieces of malware, including Duqu. Researchers have found similarities between X-Agent implants described in previous Fancy Bear reports and the version found in the Ukrainian military app, but they pointed out that such similarities can be faked by threat actors. Another interesting discovery is that the rogue app does not use GPS to obtain the infected device’s exact location, which Carr names “a surprising design flaw for custom-made malware whose alleged objective was to collect and transmit location data on Ukrainian artillery to the GRU.” While the malware can collect some location data via the base stations used by the infected Android device, Carr believes it’s not enough to track someone, especially given Ukraine’s poor cellular service. CrowdStrike said it had obtained the information on D-30 howitzer losses from the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS), but as VOA pointed out, the loss estimates actually come from a pro-Russia website that published its own interpretation of some IISS reports. Pavlo Narozhnyy, a technical adviser to Ukraine’s military, told VOA that he doubts the D-30 app can be hacked, and he claimed that none of the app’s users reported any D-30 howitzer losses. Carr also highlighted that the malware-infected app may have not actually made it onto a single Ukrainian soldier’s Android device, considering that each user needed to contact Sherstuk personally to obtain an activation code. “Crowdstrike never contacted the app’s developer to inform him about their findings. Had they performed that simple courtesy, they might have learned from Jaroslav Sherstuk how improbable, if not impossible, their theory was,” Carr said. “Instead, they worked inside of their own research bubble, performed no verification of infected applications or tablets used by Ukraine’s artillery corps, and extrapolated an effect of 80% losses based upon a self-proclaimed, pro-Russian propagandist and an imaginary number of infected applications.” CrowdStrike stands by its findings and is confident that the military app has been hacked by the Fancy Bear group. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Malware
Microsoft Patches Windows Zero-Day Exploited by Russian Hackers The 14 security bulletins released on Tuesday by Microsoft address many serious issues, including a couple of Windows vulnerabilities actively exploited by malicious actors and bugs for which exploits are already publicly available. One of the zero-days has been patched with MS16-135, a bulletin rated important. MS16-135 fixes two information disclosure and three privilege escalation flaws, one of which is a Windows kernel bug exploited in attacks by a Russia-linked cyber espionage group to elevate privileges and escape the browser sandbox. The zero-day, tracked as CVE-2016-7255, was reported to Microsoft by Google researchers on October 21 and it was disclosed by the search giant ten days later. Google typically gives vendors a few months to patch vulnerabilities, but the deadline is only 7 days for flaws exploited in the wild. While Google decided that it would be in the best interest of users to disclose the vulnerability, Microsoft disagreed and criticized the company for putting its customers at risk. Microsoft said the vulnerability had been exploited in a low-volume spear-phishing campaign by the threat group known as Pawn Storm, APT28, Fancy Bear, Sednit, Sofacy and Tsar Team. The vulnerability affects Windows Vista through Windows 10 Anniversary Update, but new mitigations prevent exploitation against the latter. The same attacks also leverage a Flash Player vulnerability that Adobe patched on October 26. This is not the only zero-day vulnerability patched by Microsoft on Tuesday. The critical security bulletin MS16-132 addresses several issues related to the Windows Media Foundation, the Windows Animation Manager and OpenType fonts, including a remote code execution vulnerability (CVE-2016-7256) caused due to the way the Windows font library handles specially crafted embedded fonts. The vulnerability has been exploited in the wild, but Microsoft has not shared any details on these attacks. The company said the flaw can be exploited via specially crafted websites or documents that victims must open in order to trigger the exploit. Microsoft also patched a couple of vulnerabilities that have not been exploited in the wild, but for which exploits are publicly available. This includes a browser information disclosure vulnerability (CVE-2016-7199) and an Edge spoofing flaw (CVE-2016-7209) – both fixed with MS16-129. Other critical security bulletins resolve various Windows vulnerabilities, including issues affecting Video Control, the Input Method Editor (IME) and the Task Scheduler. Important bulletins fix security holes in the Windows Virtual Hard Disk Driver, SQL Server, Windows authentication methods, the Windows kernel, Secure Boot, the Windows Common Log File System (CLFS) driver, and Office. Adobe also released security updates this Patch Tuesday. The company addressed one vulnerability in Connect for Windows and nine arbitrary code execution flaws in Flash Player. The Flash Player issues have also been patched in Internet Explorer and Edge with the MS16-141 critical bulletin. Related: Microsoft Edge Tops Browser Protection Tests Related: Microsoft Delays Retirement of EMET (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Pawn Storm Group Targets Turkey Pawn Storm, the cyber espionage group linked by some researchers to Russia, has recently started targeting government and news organizations in Turkey, Trend Micro reported on Monday. The economic and politically-motivated threat actor, which has been active for the past decade, is also known as APT28, Sednit, Sofacy, Fancy Bear and Tsar Team. The group has focused its activities on individuals and military, government, media and defense organizations from across the world, including Ukraine, Poland, Russia, the United States, and various NATO member countries. The list of known targets also includes governments in Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Trend Micro recently discovered that Turkey has also been added to Pawn Storm’s list of targets. More precisely, starting with mid-January and until late February, the group was spotted attacking the Turkish government’s Directorate General of Press and Information, the country’s Grand National Assembly, the newspaper Hürriyet, and the Prime Minister’s Office (Başbakanlık). Experts noted that if Pawn Storm is really a Russian group, it would make sense for it to target Turkey. Russia could have an interest in Turkey for several reasons, including the incident in which Turkey shot down a Russian warplane in the Turkey-Syria border area, disputes related to Kurdish groups, and refugees entering Europe via Turkey. In one attack against Turkey, Pawn Storm set up fake Outlook Web Access (OWA) servers in order to gain access to sensitive information. The cyber-espionage actor is known for using this technique, including in attacks aimed at defense companies in the U.S. and organizations tasked with investigating the crash of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17. “Phishing attacks against OWA users are relatively inexpensive for the attackers, but can be highly effective to steal sensitive information,” Trend Micro senior threat researcher Feike Hacquebord explained in a blog post. Similar to other Pawn Storm targets, Turkey could also be perceived as a threat to Russia. Experts believe the latest attacks are related to previous operations targeting the Syrian opposition and Arab countries that criticized Russia’s intervention in Syria. “The target list above shows that Pawn Storm may be after political information from Turkey: even the Turkish parliament got attacked. The fact they have set up at least two fake OWA servers for one of the largest Turkish newspapers may also be considered as further proof that they are also after information on what is going on in major media outlets in that country,” Hacquebord noted. Trend Micro said it managed to warn Turkish authorities about the attacks, allowing them to take action before too much damage was caused. In the operation aimed at Turkey, the cyber espionage group leveraged infrastructure provided by a company in the Netherlands, whose services had been previously used by several other threat actors, including Carbanak cybercriminals and the Gaza cybergang. Related: Fysbis Backdoor Preferred by Pawn Storm Group to Target Linux Related: Oracle Patches Java Zero-Day Exploited by Pawn Storm Attackers (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
'Macronleaks': Hackers Find Flaw in French Cyber-Fortress They knew months ago that top-of-the-range hackers had been targeting them. They believe their security measures, too, had been nothing short of top-rate. But, in the end, French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron's team got hacked. And on Friday night, just an hour before the end of official campaigning, thousands of documents including emails and accounts belonging to his En Marche! (On the Move!) movement were dumped online. "It's just incredible what's happening," said Belgian researcher Nicolas Vanderbiest, a specialist on online rumours, whose map showing how the "Macron Leak" propagated on Twitter has Wikileaks at the centre. Macron's campaign team says it put in place servers protected by sophisticated software filters, recommended the use of several encrypted messaging and cellphone networks, and required double and triple authentication to access emails. It says it stored its information in multiple-partitioned cells, with databases separated like fortresses, accessible by passwords that were complex and regularly changed. But a squad of shadowy hackers seem to have found the back door. "In this kind of organisation the real potential faultline is the human element," the head of computer services for En Marche! recently told AFP, requesting anonymity. Because security procedures can become long and cumbersome, some people can be tempted to get around them by using personal email services which are little or badly protected. - 'en-nnarche.com' - On April 25, a report by Japanese cyber-security company Trend Micro, blamed a so-called "phishing" attack targetting the Macron campaign on Russian hacking group Pawn Storm, also known as Fancy Bears, Tsar Team and APT28. The group, suspected of close links to the Russian security services, is also accused of having targetted the Democratic Party during last year's US presidential election, in which Republican-backed Donald Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton. In this kind of attack, which does not require sophisticated resources, hackers can open up security gaps in software, for example during an update or through a so-called mirror site. This would be something like "en-nnarche.com", hoping that a user when reading quickly would mistake the "nn" for an "m" and fall into the trap, revealing access codes. The principle of phishing, a classic arm in the hackers' arsenal, is to send a large number of fake emails often containing infected attachments, hoping that a distracted recipient will click on one, creating a breach in the targetted system. The gap is unlikely to show up immediately, and the loophole it generates may be exploited weeks or months later. The Macron campaign reacted swiftly to Friday night's data dump, saying it would take all measures necessary to shed light on the "unprecedented" incident. But it did not seem overly worried by the substance of what had been leaked. "Throughout the campaign, En Marche! has constantly been the party the most targeted by such attempts, in an intense and repeated fashion," it said in a lengthy statement. "The aim of those behind this leak is, all evidence suggests, to hurt the En Marche! party. Clearly, the documents arising from the hacking are all lawful and show the normal functioning of a presidential campaign." Senator Bazira Khiari, a national delegate for En Marche!, told AFP Saturday morning: "We were informed last night... We were just told to change our passwords". (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare
German Spy Service Says Russia Behind Major Cyber Attacks 'Evidence' Russia Behind Cyber Attacks in Germany: Secret Service Germany's domestic secret service said Friday it had evidence that Russia was behind a series of cyber attacks, including one that targeted the German parliament last year. The operations cited by the BfV intelligence agency ranged from an aggressive attack called Sofacy or APT 28 that hit NATO members and knocked French TV station TV5Monde off air, to a hacking campaign called Sandstorm that brought down part of Ukraine's power grid last year. "Cyberspace is a place for hybrid warfare. It opens a new space of operations for espionage and sabotage," said Hans-Georg Maassen, who heads the BfV agency. "The campaigns being monitored by the BfV are generally about obtaining information, that is spying," he said. "However, Russian secret services have also shown a readiness to carry out sabotage." Germany itself fell victim to one of these rogue operations, with the Sofacy attack last year hitting the German lower house of parliament. Chancellor Angela Merkel's CDU party confirmed it had been targeted in April, adding that "we have adapted our IT infrastructure as a result". The BfV said the "cyber attacks carried out by Russian secret services are part of multi-year international operations that are aimed at obtaining strategic information." "Some of these operations can be traced back as far as seven to 11 years." Government, military, media IT experts believe that Sofacy or APT 28 is a so-called phishing tool of the broader Operation Pawn Storm, that has been blamed for targeting NATO and the US government and military as well as Ukrainian activists and Russian dissidents. The operation included the attempted hacking of the Dutch Safety Board's computer systems by Russian spies seeking to access a sensitive final report into the July 2014 shooting down of flight MH17 over Ukraine, according to security experts Trend Micro. It also hit France's TV5Monde television channel last April, shutting down transmissions and placing jihadist propaganda messages on the station's website, Facebook and Twitter accounts. The station had initially focused investigations on the IS group, after the perpetrators claimed to be members of the jihadist organisation. But in June, a French judicial source put the blame on Russian hackers. "Sandworm" meanwhile refers to a group of hackers who deploy the malware known as Black Energy and KillDisk through phishing emails. BfV said Sandworm targeted not just government posts, but "was also aimed at telecommunications companies, energy providers as well as higher education facilities". The West has been boosting resources and tightening cooperation to fight the mounting threat of international cyber attacks, with cyber defence designated as a core NATO task. *Updated (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Sofacy Threat Group Targets US Government The Sofacy threat group has been spotted sending a spear phishing email to a United States government agency from an apparently compromised email account belonging to a government organization in a different country. Sofacy is a Russia-linked cyber espionage group that is also known as Pawn Storm, APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear and Tsar Team. According to Palo Alto Networks’ Unit 42 research team, the threat actor recently attempted to deliver a piece of malware to an unnamed U.S. government organization. The email carrying the malware came from an email address belonging to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of a different country. Since the email address did not appear to be spoofed, experts believe the attackers likely compromised the email account or a host within the government organization. The email, titled “FW: Exercise Noble Partner 2016,” carried an RTF file designed to exploit an Office vulnerability patched by Microsoft in April 2015 (CVE-2015-1641) to deliver what researchers call a Carberp-based variant of the Sofacy Trojan. Sofacy has been known to use leaked Carberp source code in the development of its malware. When the RTF file is opened, CVE-2015-1641 is exploited and two files are dropped – btecache.dll and svchost.dll. The first file, the loader, is designed to execute the second file, which is the actual Trojan. Researchers pointed out that unlike in other attacks, in this case, no decoy documents are dropped or displayed. Palo Alto Networks noticed that a new persistence tactic was used in this attack. The registry key that is created for persistence is set up to run the malware only when the victim opens a Microsoft Office application, instead of launching it directly at system startup. “This is the first time Unit 42 has seen the Sofacy group, or any other threat group for that matter, use this tactic for persistence purposes,” researchers noted in a blog post. “An added benefit for the threat actor to using this specific tactic for persistence is that it requires user interaction to load and execute the malicious payload, which can cause challenges for detection in automated sandboxes.” The document attached to the spear phishing email targeting the U.S. government entity referenced a joint military training exercise that took place in May between Georgia and the United States. Researchers also reported seeing documents referencing the Russian military – these had been used in attacks against Poland. Sofacy has been known to target organizations from all around the world. The threat group was recently observed attacking the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, the political party of Chancellor Angela Merkel, and various media and government organizations in Turkey. Related: Fysbis Backdoor Preferred by Pawn Storm Group to Target Linux (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Russia-Linked Cyberspies Target Google Accounts The notorious cyberespionage group Pawn Storm has targeted a significant number of Google accounts belonging to individuals in Russia, the United States, Europe and former Soviet Union countries. The advanced persistent threat (APT) actor is also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, TG-4127, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team. It is one of the two supposedly Russian threat groups believed to have breached the systems of the U.S. Democratic National Committee (DNC). Shortly after news broke that Russian hackers had targeted DNC systems, researchers at SecureWorks reported that Pawn Storm had attempted to steal credentials associated with nearly 4,000 Gmail accounts between October 2015 and May 2016. The list of targets included people working for or associated with the DNC and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. A new report published this week by SecureWorks details an earlier spear phishing campaign that targeted over 1,800 Google accounts. While many of them belonged to people in Russia and former Soviet Union states, some of the targets were current and former government and military personnel in the United States and Europe, and foreign authors and journalists interested in Russia. “The range of targets demonstrates that the threat group poses a broad threat to individuals and groups associated with U.S. politics, to organizations and individuals in the government and defense verticals, and to those whose business involves commenting on Russia,” SecureWorks researchers noted. In this campaign, attackers used a domain named “accoounts-google.com” to trick users into handing over their Google credentials. A link to this phishing website was disguised using the Bit.ly URL shortening service and sent via email to targeted individuals. An analysis of the targeted accounts revealed that Pawn Storm was mostly after information on Russia’s military involvement in eastern Ukraine. Attackers also attempted to hack into the accounts of journalists, advocacy groups and human rights organizations in Russia, and political, military and diplomatic targets in former Soviet countries. Outside Russia and the former Soviet Union, attackers targeted military personnel, authors and journalists, NGOs, people involved in government and defense supply chains, government personnel, aerospace researchers, aviation professionals and political activists. A majority of the government and military targets were from the United States and NATO member countries. Researchers discovered nearly 4,400 phishing URLs sent to the owners of more than 1,800 Google accounts between March and September 2015. An analysis of the URLs showed that 59 percent of them were clicked, but it’s unclear how many users actually took the bait. While many of the accounts received multiple phishing URLs, roughly one-third of them were only targeted once and 60 percent of these recipients clicked the malicious link, which could indicate that they were successfully compromised. Related: Pawn Storm Cyberspies Target German Ruling Party (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Adobe Patches 9 Flash Player Flaws Reported via ZDI Security updates released by Adobe on this Patch Tuesday address one vulnerability in Connect for Windows and nine arbitrary code execution flaws in Flash Player. Flash Player 23.0.0.207 for Windows, Mac and web browsers, and Flash Player 11.2.202.644 for Linux patch type confusion and use-after-free vulnerabilities tracked as CVE-2016-7857, CVE-2016-7858, CVE-2016-7859, CVE-2016-7860, CVE-2016-7861, CVE-2016-7862, CVE-2016-7863, CVE-2016-7864 and CVE-2016-7865. All of the issues addressed on this occasion have been reported to Adobe through Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) by various researchers, including bo13oy of CloverSec Labs, Archer, Kiritou Kureha, Erisaka Mafuyu, Onoe Serika, Kuchiki Toko and Takanashi Rikka. Adobe has also informed customers of a Connect update that resolves an input validation vulnerability in the events registration module. The flaw, reported by Vulnerability Lab, can be exploited for cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks. The issue affects versions 9.5.6 and earlier for Windows, and it was fixed with the release of Connect 9.5.7. Adobe said there was no evidence that any of these vulnerabilities had been exploited in the wild. A Flash Player vulnerability exploited in targeted attacks was addressed by Adobe on October 26. The flaw (CVE-2016-7855) has been used by the Russia-linked threat actor known as Pawn Storm, APT28 and Fancy Bear. Attackers leveraged the security hole in combination with a Windows kernel weakness – the Flash Player bug was used to gain control of the victim’s browser process and the Windows bug was exploited to elevate privileges and escape the browser sandbox. Both Adobe and Microsoft were informed about the vulnerabilities by Google on October 21, but Microsoft only managed to patch the Windows flaw on Tuesday with its monthly security updates. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Malicious PDF Leads to Discovery of Adobe Reader, Windows Zero-Days Researchers at ESET recently came across a malicious PDF file set up to exploit two zero-day vulnerabilities affecting Adobe Reader and Microsoft Windows. The malicious document leverages a privilege escalation flaw in Windows (CVE-2018-8120) and a remote code execution vulnerability in Adobe Reader (CVE-2018-4990). CVE-2018-8120 is one of the two zero-day vulnerabilities fixed by Microsoft with its May 2018 Patch Tuesday updates, while CVE-2018-4990 was addressed by Adobe on May 14 with the release of updates that fix nearly 50 other issues. By combining the two flaws, attackers can execute arbitrary code with elevated privileges with minimal user interaction – specifically, opening the malicious PDF. In order to make it more difficult for attackers to execute arbitrary code on a system running its Reader software, Adobe has implemented a sandbox. Exploiting only CVE-2018-4990 allows code execution within the sandbox, but combining it with the Windows privilege escalation flaw makes it possible to escape the sandbox and execute the code in kernel mode. It’s worth noting that CVE-2018-8120 only affects Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 – newer versions of the operating system include security features that prevent attacks. ESET discovered the malicious PDF in a public malware repository (likely VirusTotal). However, the company has not shared any information on who may have found the flaws and who the attackers may have planned on targeting. “Even though the sample does not contain a real malicious final payload, which may suggest that it was caught during its early development stages, the author(s) demonstrated a high level of skills in vulnerability discovery and exploit writing,” explained Anton Cherepanov, the ESET researcher credited by Microsoft and Adobe for reporting the flaws. ESET has published a blog post containing technical information on both vulnerabilities. At the time of writing, 18 of the 59 antivirus engines on VirusTotal detect the files discovered by ESET as a generic Trojan or exploit. Using two zero-day exploits in a single file is not unheard of. Last year, the Russia-linked threat actor known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear, Sofacy, Sednit and Strontium leveraged an Office RCE flaw (CVE-2017-0262) and a Windows privilege escalation (CVE-2017-0263) to deliver malware. Related: Adobe Patches Flash Zero-Day Exploited by North Korean Hackers Related: Triton Malware Exploited Zero-Day in Schneider Electric Devices Related: Microsoft Patches Zero-Day Vulnerability in Office (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
U.S. Gov's "GRIZZLY STEPPE" Report Fails to Achieve Purpose: Experts The recently released Joint Analysis Report (JAR) published by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to detail tools used by Russian hackers in cyber attacks against the United States election didn’t deliver on its promise, security experts argue. The United States government said from the start that the JAR was meant to offer declassified technical information on the malicious cyber activity carried out by Russian civilian and military intelligence Services (RIS) referred to as GRIZZLY STEPPE. The information was also meant for network defenders in the United States and abroad to use to better “identify, detect, and disrupt Russia’s global campaign of malicious cyber activities.” But the information included in the JAR isn’t enough to help improve defenses, some experts argue. What’s more, some suggest that "evidence" provided in the report that Cozy Bear (APT29) and Fancy Bear (APT28) were behind the election-focused attacks doesn’t actually prove that Russia was behind the attacks. The report included a series of Indicators of Compromise (IOCs), but security exert Robert Graham explains that they are of low quality, have limited utility to defenders, and “are published as a political tool, to prove they have evidence pointing to Russia.” One of these is the YARA rule included in the report, which is a tool security researchers use to classify files and to analyze infected systems for attribution purposes. The YARA rule in US-CERT's GRIZZLY STEPPE report detects a web shell tool popular among Russia/Ukraine hackers, namely the “PAS TOOL WEB KIT.” Graham argues that, because it can find the same web shell on all the victims, the YARA rule is useful at tracking the activity of hackers because they tend to continue using tools they are accustomed with. The issue with the JAR, however, is that the YARA it mentions is used to track a P.A.S. web shell used by “hundreds if not thousands of hackers,” which makes attribution problematic. Unless, Graham says, the report withholds some of the information used for attribution. “We have little visibility into how the government used these IoCs. IP addresses and YARA rules like this are weak, insufficient for attribution by themselves. On the other hand, if they've got web server logs from multiple victims where commands from those IP addresses went to this specific web shell, then the attribution would be strong that all these attacks are by the same actor,” Graham says. Robert M. Lee, CEO and Founder of security company Dragos, also believes that the report provides weak evidence for attribution and that the technical details included in it fail to achieve the intended purpose: it doesn’t help network defenders and doesn’t reveal new information on the two APTs (Advanced Persistent Threats) either, although it attributes the attacks to them (yet without offering the evidence everyone was expecting). As Lee points out, a Fact Sheet published by the White House to accompany the announcement of various sanctions against Russia (intended as retaliation for RIS’ malicious cyber-activity), suggested that the JAR would contain declassified information on Russian malware, provide details on new tactics and techniques used by Russia, and also validate previously published private sector data. But it does none of those. “Unfortunately, while the intent was laid out clearly by the White House that intent was not captured in the DHS/FBI report,” Lee notes. In fact, he suggests that the report creates confusion by interweaving unrelated data; that it fails to provide a source for the presented data (which makes the information useless); and that some of the provided indicators of compromise, such as the IP addresses, are nearly useless (they are VPS, TOR exit nodes, proxies, and other non-descriptive internet traffic sites). According to Lee, however, this didn’t happen because the government operators who compiled the report didn’t do their job properly, but because the report then went through a series of reviews and sanitation operations that stripped out the best information. According to Lee, this is something that usually happens when the U.S. Intelligence Community releases any kind of information to the public. Lee also says that the technical data and attribution are likely being included in a report prepared for Congress and which could be later declassified. “Yet, the GRIZZLY STEPPE report reads like a poorly done vendor intelligence report stringing together various aspects of attribution without evidence,” Lee says. “The DHS/FBI GRIZZLY STEPPE report does not meet its stated intent of helping network defenders and instead choose to focus on a confusing assortment of attribution, non-descriptive indicators, and re-hashed tradecraft. Additionally, the bulk of the report (8 of the 13 pages) is general high level recommendations not descriptive of the RIS threats mentioned and with no linking to what activity would help with what aspect of the technical data covered. It simply serves as an advertisement of documents and programs the DHS is trying to support,” Lee also says. Mark Maunder, Wordfence Founder and CEO, explains that an analysis of the PHP malware samples included in the JAR revealed that it was an older variant of P.A.S., namely version 3.1.0, which is “commonly available”. The malware’s site, he also reveals, points at newer versions of the malware, namely 3.1.7 and 4.1.1b and claims that Ukrainians developed it. “One might reasonably expect Russian intelligence operatives to develop their own tools or at least use current malicious tools from outside sources,” Maunder says. He also explains that 134 or about 15% of the 876 IP addresses listed in the report are Tor exit nodes, which are “are anonymous gateways that are used by anyone using the Tor anonymous browsing service.” What’s more, most of the top 50 most active IP addresses by number of complex attacks they were used in during the past 60 days, are Tor exit nodes, meaning they can’t be used for attribution. “The IP addresses that DHS provided may have been used for an attack by a state actor like Russia. But they don’t appear to provide any association with Russia. They are probably used by a wide range of other malicious actors, especially the 15% of IP addresses that are Tor exit nodes. The malware sample is old, widely used and appears to be Ukrainian. It has no apparent relationship with Russian intelligence and it would be an indicator of compromise for any website,” Maunder concludes. Responding to an email inquiry, Chris Roberts, chief security architect at Acalvio, a Santa Clara, Calif.-based threat detection firm, told SecurityWeek that the report is fuzzy and non-committal, and that this is its main issue. “It doesn't come out and say "Hey the FSB and GRU hacked us" and has done so for the last 10-20 years. It simply refers to APT (actors) and insinuates that they are part of the establishment as opposed to providing actual details,” he said. Paul Calatayud, CTO at FireMon, also told SecurityWeek that the report doesn’t offer new information regarding the activities of these threat groups: “Upon review, there is nothing new in regards to these actors and the techniques they are using. The newsworthy elements here are the source of the actors and their motivations in hitting political systems and implications of what it means in regards to national security.” Related: Spies and Hackers: Russians Sanctioned by US Related: Trump to Meet U.S. Spy Chiefs to Get Russian Hacking 'Facts' Related: U.S. Punishes Russia Over Election Hacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Network Security NEWS & INDUSTRY Incident Response
Windows Zero-Day Exploited by Russia-Linked Cyberspies The Windows zero-day vulnerability disclosed this week by Google has been exploited by the Russia-linked cyberespionage group known as Strontium. Microsoft has been working on a patch and expects to release it on November 8. Google informed Adobe and Microsoft on October 21 that malicious actors had been actively exploiting previously unknown vulnerabilities in Flash Player (CVE-2016-7855) and the Windows kernel. The companies were given 7 days to patch the flaws or publish workarounds that would help users protect themselves against attacks. Adobe released a patch for Flash Player on October 26, but since Microsoft had not come up with a fix or a workaround, Google decided that it would be in the best interest of users to disclose the Windows flaw. Microsoft does not agree and accused Google of putting its customers at risk. In a blog post published on Tuesday, Microsoft revealed that the Windows vulnerability has been exploited by the group tracked by the company as Strontium. The threat actor is also known as Pawn Storm, APT28, Fancy Bear, Sednit, Sofacy and Tsar Team. The group, which many believe is sponsored by the Russian government, has been linked to numerous high-profile attacks, including ones aimed at the U.S. Democratic Party, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), investigators of the flight MH17 crash, and government organizations in Germany and Turkey. According to Microsoft, the Windows flaw exploited by the group in a low-volume spear-phishing campaign affects Windows Vista through Windows 10 Anniversary Update, but the exploit does not work against the latter due to new mitigations implemented recently by Microsoft. The attackers have been leveraging the Flash Player vulnerability to gain control of the victim’s browser process, after which they use the Windows kernel flaw to elevate their privileges and escape the browser sandbox. In the last phase of the attack, a backdoor that gives attackers access to the victim’s device is downloaded and executed. While Microsoft will only release a patch next Tuesday, the company pointed out that security features in Edge, and Device Guard for Internet Explorer and other browsers, should block the final stages of the attack. Furthermore, the company says its Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (ATP) system also detects and blocks these attacks. Related: Russian Cyberspies Use "Komplex" Trojan to Target OS X Systems Related: U.S. Officially Accuses Russia of Election Hacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Adobe Patches Flash Zero-Day Exploited in Targeted Attacks Adobe has patched vulnerabilities in nine of its products, including Flash Player, which is affected by a zero-day flaw that has been exploited in targeted attacks. Flash Player 24.0.0.186 resolves a total of 17 vulnerabilities, a majority of which can be exploited for arbitrary code execution. The most interesting of the security holes is CVE-2016-7892, a use-after-free reported to Adobe by an individual who wanted to remain anonymous. According to Adobe, an exploit for CVE-2016-7892 exists in the wild and the vulnerability has been leveraged in limited, targeted attacks aimed at Windows users running a 32-bit version of Internet Explorer. The other Flash Player vulnerabilities were reported to Adobe by independent researchers and experts from Microsoft, Pangu LAB, Tencent, CloverSec Labs, Qihoo 360, Trend Micro’s Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) and Palo Alto Networks. The Flash Player patches have also been included in one of the security bulletins released by Microsoft on Tuesday. Adobe also announced the availability of security updates that patch a memory corruption flaw in Animate, two cross-site scripting (XSS) issues in Experience Manager Forms, and a critical memory corruption in DNG Converter. Three XSS and one cross-site request forgery (CSRF) flaws in Experience Manager, a memory corruption in InDesign, information disclosure bugs in ColdFusion Builder and Digital Editions, and an XSS flaw in RoboHelp have also been patched. The software giant said there was no evidence that any of these vulnerabilities had been exploited in the wild. While the Patch Tuesday updates released by Adobe in the past three months did not address any zero-days, Adobe did release an out-of-band patch for Flash Player in late October to fix a use-after-free exploited in a low-volume spear phishing campaign by the Russia-linked threat actor known as Pawn Storm, APT28, Fancy Bear, Sednit, Sofacy and Tsar Team. Related: U.S. Authorities Reach Settlement With Adobe Over 2013 Breach Related: Adobe Patches 9 Flash Player Flaws Reported via ZDI (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Vulnerabilities
Russia Used Android Malware to Track Ukrainian Troops: Report The Russia-linked cyberespionage group known as Fancy Bear has tracked Ukrainian artillery forces by planting a piece of Android malware in a legitimate military application, threat intelligence firm CrowdStrike reported on Thursday. Fancy Bear is also known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Tsar Team, Strontium and Sednit. The group is believed to be responsible for many high-profile attacks, including recent operations aimed at the U.S. Democratic Party, government organizations in Turkey and Germany, and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). CrowdStrike believes Fancy Bear is likely tied to GRU, the foreign military intelligence agency of Russia’s Armed Forces, and the company’s recent findings reinforce this theory. This summer, the company’s analysts came across an Android application package (APK) file named “Попр-Д30.apk.” The file contained Russian-language artifacts and its name referenced the D-30, a Russian-made 122 mm towed howitzer that first entered service in the 1960s. The D-30 is still used by the Ukrainian military and, in 2013, artillery officer Yaroslav Sherstuk created an Android app designed to help personnel reduce the time to fire the gun from minutes to under 15 seconds. According to its developer, the application has roughly 9,000 users. According to CrowdStrike, Fancy Bear took the legitimate Android app and bundled it with an Android variant of X-Agent, a piece of malware that has been used by the threat actor in attacks aimed at high-value targets, including the Democratic National Committee (DNC). The malicious version of the app was distributed on Ukrainian military forums from late 2014 through 2016. Experts believe the legitimate program had been mainly distributed through social media, not via the Google Play store. The Android variant of the X-Agent malware appears to be designed for strategic purposes as it does not cause any damage to the infected device and it does not interfere with the operation of the original app. X-Agent is capable of accessing contact information, SMS messages, call logs and Internet data. “CrowdStrike Intelligence assesses a tool such as this has the potential ability to map out a unit’s composition and hierarchy, determine their plans, and even triangulate their approximate location. This type of strategic analysis can enable the identification of zones in which troops are operating and help prioritize assets within those zones for future targeting,” CrowdStrike wrote in its report. “Additionally, a study provided by the International Institute of Strategic Studies determined that the weapons platform bearing the highest losses between 2013 and 2016 was the D-30 towed howitzer. It is possible that the deployment of this malware infected application may have contributed to the high-loss nature of this platform,” the report adds. The threat intelligence firm pointed out that the purpose of the malicious D-30 app further strengthens its belief that Fancy Bear is likely affiliated with Russia’s GRU agency. Related: Russian Cyberspies Use "Komplex" Trojan to Target OS X Systems Related: Two APTs Used Same Zero-Day to Target Individuals in Europe (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare Mobile Security NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Tracking & Law Enforcement
Windows 10 Blocks Zero-Days Before Patches Arrive: Microsoft Unknown to vendors but exploited by cybercriminals, zero-day vulnerabilities are the most threatening security issues, but Microsoft's Windows 10 can block exploitation of these vulnerabilities before they are even patched, Microsoft says. The mitigation techniques that arrived in August 2016 as part of the Windows 10 Anniversary Update make all this possible. The update was meant to harden the platform to ensure it can stop exploits of newly discovered and even undisclosed vulnerabilities before a patch is released, and Microsoft claims that it already proved to be effective against two exploits associated with well-known threat groups. More precisely, the deployed mitigation techniques did their job and successfully blocked kernel-level exploits for the CVE-2016-7255 and CVE-2016-7256 vulnerabilities before they were patched in November 2016, the tech behemoth explains. The former is a Win32k Elevation of Privilege Exploit, while the latter is an Open Type Font Exploit. CVE-2016-7255, a type-confusion vulnerability in win32k.sys, was exploited by the STRONTIUM attack group to gain elevated privileges on compromised systems. To get access to the targeted computers, the group used an Adobe Flash Player vulnerability (tracked as CVE-2016-7855). The two exploits were used in a small spear-phishing campaign targeting think tanks and nongovernmental organizations in the United States. Also known as Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, APT28, Sednit, and Sofacy, this threat group was recently officially blamed for last year’s cyber-attacks on U.S. elections, albeit the U.S. government failed to provide proper evidence on attribution. The STRONTIUM group, Microsoft says, leveraged the Win32k exploit in attacks in October 2016, where they attempted to corrupt the tagWND.strName structure and use SetWindowTextW to write arbitrary content anywhere in kernel memory. Abusing the API call to overwrite data of current processes and copy token privileges of the SYSTEM, the exploit allowed attackers to run victim processes with elevated privileges. The Windows 10 Anniversary Update includes techniques that prevent abusive use of tagWND.strName, thus mitigating the Win32k exploit and similar exploits. According to the software company, tests have proven that exploits abusing this method are ineffective and instead cause exceptions and subsequent blue screen errors. The CVE-2016-7256 vulnerability in the Windows font library, on the other hand, was being abused to install a backdoor known as Hankray on targeted computers with older versions of Windows. The backdoor had been previously spotted in low-volume attacks primarily focused on targets in South Korea. “The font samples found on affected computers were specifically manipulated with hardcoded addresses and data to reflect actual kernel memory layouts. This indicates the likelihood that a secondary tool dynamically generated the exploit code at the time of infiltration,” Microsoft says. Designed to copy the main body of the shellcode to newly allocated memory and run it, the stage 1 shellcode is very small, the tech giant explains. The main shellcode, which runs after the copy instructions, while also small, performs a token-stealing technique, then copies the token pointer from a SYSTEM process to the target process, achieving privilege escalation. The Windows 10 Anniversary Update can prevent the exploit because font parsing happens completely in AppContainer instead of the kernel. Because it creates an isolated sandbox, AppContainer can prevent font exploits (among other types of exploits) from achieving privilege escalation. Moreover, the platform includes additional validation for font file parsing. According to Microsoft, the main idea behind the hardening of Windows 10 is to ensure that mitigation techniques in the platform can tackle multiple exploits instead of focusing on neutralizing a specific bug. These mitigation techniques can either break exploit methods or close entire classes of vulnerabilities, and Microsoft plans on taking this prevention to a new level in Windows 10 Creators Update, which will include generic kernel exploit detection Windows Defender ATP, expected to deliver increased visibility into targeted attacks based on zero-day exploits. “By delivering these mitigation techniques, we are increasing the cost of exploit development, forcing attackers to find ways around new defense layers. Even the simple tactical mitigation against popular RW primitives forces the exploit authors to spend more time and resources in finding new attack routes. By moving font parsing code to an isolated container, we significantly reduce the likelihood that font bugs are used as vectors for privilege escalation,” Microsoft also says. Related: Windows 10 Creators Update Brings New Security Capabilities Related: Microsoft Adds Virtualization-based Security to Edge Browser Related: Microsoft Expands Multi-Factor Authentication Solution (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Endpoint Security NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Russian Cyberspies Use "Komplex" Trojan to Target OS X Systems Researchers at Palo Alto Networks have come across an OS X Trojan they believe has been used by a notorious Russia-linked cyber espionage group in attacks aimed at the aerospace industry. The malware, dubbed “Komplex,” appears to have been developed by the threat actor known as Sofacy, Pawn Storm, APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear and Tsar Team. The gang has been tied to numerous high-profile attacks, including ones aimed at the U.S. government and the country’s political parties, the German parliament, and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). According to Palo Alto Networks, Komplex attacks start with a binder component that deploys a decoy document, which is displayed with the Preview application in OS X, and the Trojan’s dropper. The dropper component is designed to drop and execute the main payload and ensure its persistence by configuring the system to launch it when OS X starts. Once it infects a device, the malware establishes contact with its command and control (C&C) server and collects system information. The Trojan allows attackers to execute arbitrary commands and download additional files to the affected machine. Palo Alto Networks’ analysis revealed that Komplex is likely the unnamed Mac Trojan described in a June 2015 blog post by BAE Systems. At the time, the malware had been delivered via a vulnerability in the MacKeeper security and optimization software. Researchers also discovered links between Komplex and the variant of the Carberp malware used by the Sofacy group in attacks targeting the U.S. government. While Carberp is designed to target Windows systems, experts have identified several similarities, including in URL generation logic, file extensions, encryption and decryption methods, command handling, and Internet connectivity checks. “Based on these observations, we believe that the author of Sofacy’s Carberp variant used the same code, or at least the same design, to create the Komplex Trojan,” Palo Alto Networks explained in a blog post. “A benefit of retaining many of the same functionalities within the Windows and OS X Trojans is that it would require fewer alterations to the C2 server application to handle cross-platform implants.” Experts also uncovered C&C infrastructure overlaps as some of the domains used by Komplex are known to be associated with Sofacy activity. Ryan Olson, intelligence director at Palo Alto Networks’ Unit 42, told SecurityWeek that they first detected Komplex at the beginning of August. While there is no indication of significant changes in the malware functionality compared to the variant analyzed by BAE Systems last year, the attackers have apparently switched from exploiting MacKeeper vulnerabilities to using decoy documents. While experts have not been able to precisely determine which organizations have been targeted with this OS X Trojan, based on decoy documents, they believe one of the targets was likely associated with the aerospace industry. Related: Fysbis Backdoor Preferred by Pawn Storm Group to Target Linux (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Russian Cyberspies Use UEFI Rootkit in Attacks Russian cyber-espionage group Fancy Bear is the first threat actor to have used a Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) rootkit in a malicious campaign, ESET’s security researchers claim. Several years ago, Italy-based surveillance software maker Hacking Team was said to have used a UEFI rootkit to ensure the persistence of its software on targeted systems, but no UEFI rootkit had “ever been detected in the wild,” the security firm claims. A recently discovered Fancy Bear campaign, however, changes that: the actor was able to successfully deploy a malicious UEFI module on a victim’s system. Not only does this prove that UEFI rootkits are a real threat, but also shows that Fancy Bear may be even more dangerous than thought, ESET says. Active for the past decade and a half, the actor, which is also referred to as APT28, Strontium, Sofacy and Sednit, is believed to have orchestrated a variety of high profile attacks, such as the DNC hack before the US 2016 elections. Earlier this year, after the group’s Zerbrocy malware was found on systems infected with Turla’s Mosquito backdoor, security researchers concluded that the threat actor’s activities overlap with other state-sponsored operations. “Our investigation has determined that this malicious actor was successful at least once in writing a malicious UEFI module into a system’s SPI flash memory. This module is able to drop and execute malware on disk during the boot process. This persistence method is particularly invasive as it will not only survive an OS reinstall, but also a hard disk replacement,” ESET reveals in a report published today. In May, Fancy Bear was revealed to have abused LoJack (a Trojanized version of the tool, which ESET calls LoJax) in their attacks. Deeper analysis of the campaign revealed not only that the actor attempted to mimic the tool’s persistence method, but also that additional tools were used for accessing and modifying UEFI/BIOS settings. These include a kernel driver and three tools to (1) dump information about low level system settings, (2) save an image of the system firmware, and (3) add a malicious UEFI module to the image. The third tool would then write the modified firmware image back to the SPI flash memory, thus effectively installing the UEFI rootkit on the system. “If the platform allows write operations to the SPI flash memory, it will just go ahead and write to it. If not, it actually implements an exploit against a known vulnerability,” ESET reveals. The UEFI rootkit was designed to drop malware onto the Windows operating system partition and make sure that it is executed at startup. The observed LoJax samples used command and control (C&C) servers previously associated with Fancy Bear’s SedUploader first-stage backdoor, which, combined with the presence of other Sednit tools on LoJax-infected machines (SedUploader, XAgent backdoor, and Xtunnel network proxy tool), suggested that this threat actor was behind the attacks. Sednit’s UEFI rootkit, ESET discovered, is not properly signed, meaning that Secure Boot would be able to block it. The security researchers also note that the attack can write the modified firmware image only if SPI flash memory protections are vulnerable or misconfigured. “The LoJax campaign shows that high-value targets are prime candidates for the deployment of rare, even unique threats and such targets should always be on the lookout for signs of compromise. Also, one thing that this research taught us is that it is always important to dig as deep as you can go!” ESET concludes. Related: Russia-linked Hackers Exploit Lojack Recovery Tool in Attacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Endpoint Security NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
Oracle Patches Java Zero-Day, 192 Other Security Bugs Oracle on Tuesday released its July 2015 Critical Patch Update (CPU). The updates address a whopping 193 security issues across multiple product families, including a Java zero-day bug exploited in the wild by a sophisticated threat group. Trend Micro revealed earlier this week that an unpatched Java vulnerability had been exploited by the advanced persistent threat (APT) group Pawn Storm (also known as APT28, Sofacy, Fancy Bear, and Sednit) in attacks against the armed forces of a NATO member country, and major defense contractors in the United States and Canada. Researchers noted that this was the first Java zero-day attack reported in almost two years. After Oracle announced the availability of a patch for the remote code execution vulnerability (CVE-2015-2590), Trend Micro published a blog post with additional technical details on the attack. The security holes addressed by Oracle with the July 2015 CPU affect a wide range of products, including Oracle Database, Fusion Middleware, Hyperion, Enterprise Manager, E-Business Suite, Supply Chain Suite, PeopleSoft Enterprise, Siebel CRM, Communications Applications, Java SE, Sun Systems Products Suite, Linux and Virtualization, and MySQL. Forty-four of the patched flaws plague third-party components included in Oracle’s product distributions, such as Qemu and Glibc. A total of 25 vulnerabilities have been addressed in Java SE and 23 of them can be exploited remotely by an unauthenticated attacker. “16 of these Java SE fixes are for Java client-only, including one fix for the client installation of Java SE. 5 of the Java fixes are for client and server deployment. One fix is specific to the Mac platform. And 4 fixes are for JSSE client and server deployments,’ Eric Maurice, director of Oracle Software Security Assurance, said in a blog post. The latest CPU resolves ten vulnerabilities in Oracle Database, 39 in Fusion Middleware, 25 in Berkeley DB, two in Communications Applications, 13 in E-Business Suite, seven in Supply Chain Suite, eight in PeopleSoft Enterprise, five in Siebel, and two in Commerce Platform. Oracle has pointed out that the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) scores assigned in the advisory released on Tuesday are based on CVSS v2. However, now that CVSS v3 has been released, Oracle intends to move to the new standard in its future alerts and advisories. Independent researchers and experts from organizations such as Foreground Security, TELUS Security Labs, Evolution Security, Google, Trend Micro, Trustwave, Rapid7, SEC Consult, Red Hat, Ruhr University Bochum, Microsoft, KPMG, Worldpay, E.ON Business Services, NATO Communications and Information Agency, SecureLayer7, HP's Zero Day Initiative, and Help AG have been credited for reporting the vulnerabilities patched with the July 2015 CPU. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Sophisticated False Flags Planted in Olympic Destroyer Malware CANCUN - KASPERSKY SECURITY ANALYST SUMMIT - The hackers behind the recent Olympic Destroyer attack planted sophisticated false flags inside their malware in an effort to trick researchers, Kaspersky Lab revealed on Thursday. The Olympic Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, was hit by a cyberattack that caused temporary disruption to IT systems, including the official Olympics website, display monitors, and Wi-Fi connections. The attack involved Olympic Destroyer, a piece of malware designed to wipe files and make systems inoperable, and steal passwords from browsers and Windows. Compromised credentials are used to spread to other machines on the network. Kaspersky has also spotted infections at several ski resorts in South Korea. The malware, which leverages a leaked NSA exploit known as EternalRomance to spread via the SMB protocol, temporarily disrupted ski gates and lifts at the affected resorts. Several cybersecurity firms launched investigations into the Olympic Destroyer attack shortly after the news broke, and while they mostly agreed on the malware’s functionality, they could not agree on who was behind the operation. Some pointed the finger at North Korea, while others blamed China or Russia, leading some industry professionals to warn against this type of knee-jerk attribution. Kaspersky researchers also analyzed the Olympic Destroyer worm in an effort to determine who was behind the attack. While they have’t been able to identify the culprit, experts have found some interesting clues. The security firm has found a unique “fingerprint” associated with the notorious Lazarus Group, which has been linked to North Korea and blamed for high profile attacks such as the one on Sony, the WannaCry campaign, and various operations targeting financial organizations. This fingerprint was a 100% match to known Lazarus malware components and it did not appear in any other files from Kaspersky’s database. While this piece of evidence and the type of attack suggested that Olympic Destroyer could be the work of North Korea, other data gathered by researchers as a result of an on-site investigation at a South Korean target revealed inconsistencies. Experts determined that the unique fingerprint was likely a sophisticated false flag planted by the attackers to throw investigators off track. “To our knowledge, the evidence we were able to find was not previously used for attribution. Yet the attackers decided to use it, predicting that someone would find it. They counted on the fact that forgery of this artifact is very hard to prove,” explained Vitaly Kamluk, head of the APAC research team at Kaspersky. “It’s as if a criminal had stolen someone else’s DNA and left it at a crime scene instead of their own. We discovered and proved that the DNA found on the crime scene was dropped there on purpose. All this demonstrates how much effort attackers are willing to spend in order to stay unidentified for as long as possible. We’ve always said that attribution in cyberspace is very hard as lots of things can be faked, and Olympic Destroyer is a pretty precise illustration of this.” In addition to this apparent link to North Korea, Kaspersky has found evidence that would suggest the involvement of the notorious group known as Sofacy, Fancy Bear, APT28 and Pawn Storm, which is widely believed to be sponsored by the Russian government. One possible scenario is that the Russian hackers attempted to frame Lazarus for the attack after the North Korean group tried to pin one of its campaigns on Russian actors. It’s also possible that the false flag used in the Olympics attack is part of the hackers’ efforts to improve their deception techniques. Links to China have been found by Intezer, which specializes in recognizing code reuse. Its analysis led to the discovery of numerous code fragments uniquely linked to threat groups tracked as APT3, APT10 and APT12. Related: Attribution Hell - Cyberspies Hacking Other Cyberspies Related: False Flags and Misdirection in Hacker Attribution Related: Attribution Concerns Raised Over Cyber Sanctions Program Related: Long-Term Strategy Needed When Analyzing APTs (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
U.S. Attributes Election Hacks to Russian Threat Groups U.S. Government Maps Election Hacks to Russian Threat Groups, But Industry Raises Concern Over Attribution Evidence The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on Thursday published a Joint Analysis Report (JAR) to detail the tools and infrastructure that Russian hackers used in attacks against the United States election. The JAR was meant to offer technical details on the cyber activities of Russian civilian and military intelligence Services (RIS), some of which targeted the US government and political and private entities. This is the first time the malicious cyber activity, which the US calls GRIZZLY STEPPE, has been officially attributed to a specific hacking group. As expected, U.S. President Barack Obama on Thursday announced several retaliatory actions against Moscow, imposing sanctions on two intelligence agencies, expelling 35 diplomats and denying access to two Russian compounds inside the United States. In October this year, the US government officially accused Russia of involvement in the cyber-attacks against US political organizations, saying that some states had seen scanning and probing activity originating from servers operated by a Russian company, but no attribution was made at the time. The report (PDF) not only makes an attribution, but also provides recommended mitigations and suggested actions to take in response to indicators provided. The JAR reveals that two different actors participated in the intrusion into a U.S. political party, one in the summer of 2015, namely Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) 29, and the other in spring 2016, namely APT28. The former is also known as Cozy Bear, or CozyDuke, while the latter is referred to as Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team. This falls in line with what intelligence firm CrowdStrike revealed in June, after assisting the Democratic National Committee (DNC), the formal governing body for the U.S. Democratic Party, to investigate cyber-attacks against its network. Later during summer, two security firms uncovered evidence that Fancy Bear breached the U.S. Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) as well. Both Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear were previously linked to attacks against US government organizations and other governments worldwide. Their attack methods include spearphishing to deliver malicious droppers to the victims’ computers, or the use of short URLs upon the creation of domains closely resembling those of targeted organizations. “Once APT28 and APT29 have access to victims, both groups exfiltrate and analyze information to gain intelligence value. These groups use this information to craft highly targeted spearphishing campaigns. These actors set up operational infrastructure to obfuscate their source infrastructure, host domains and malware for targeting organizations, establish command and control nodes, and harvest credentials and other valuable information from their targets,” the JAR reads. Previously, security researchers managed to identify some of the tools that these actors use, such as the XTunnel malware that is believed to have been specifically created for the DNC hack. Other malicious applications include the Fysbis backdoor to target Linux machines, the Komplex Trojan targeting OS X systems, and the Carberp malware to compromise Windows computers. While many in the cybersecurity understandably question the lack of appropriate details to sufficiently attribute the attacks to Russia, the US government maintains its claim that it has enough evidence to link RIS to the recent attacks. Moreover, it says that these aren’t isolated incidents, but that they are part of ongoing campaigns targeting the nation. The security industry, however, has widely criticized IOC-based attribution as a weak “evidence” to confidently point a finger. In October, Kaspersky Lab security researchers warned of the deep implications of misattribution, suggesting that attribution is difficult, mainly because of the widespread use of sophisticated deception tactics among hacking groups. “No one should be making any attribution conclusions purely from the indicators in the USCERT report. It was all a jumbled mess,” tweeted Dmitri Alperovitch, Co-Founder & CTO at CrowdStrike. “This activity by RIS is part of an ongoing campaign of cyber-enabled operations directed at the U.S. government and its citizens. These cyber operations have included spearphishing campaigns targeting government organizations, critical infrastructure entities, think tanks, universities, political organizations, and corporations leading to the theft of information,” the report claims. For US organizations to better protect themselves against such attacks, the JAR provided a list of alternate names associated with RIS, along with Indicators of Compromise (IOCs), which can be found in the accompanying CSV and STIX xml files, and recommendations regarding the actions that network administrators should take to detect compromise and secure perimeters. While some industry experts applauded the GRIZZLY STEPPE indicators provided by the U.S. Government, some experts urged caution for those quickly integrating them into their cyber defense measures. “Be careful using the DHS/FBI GRIZZLY STEPPE indicators. Many are VPS, TOR relays, proxies, etc. which will generate lots of false positives,” Robert M. Lee, founder and CEO of Dragos Security and a former member of the intelligence community, Tweeted. Via a series of tweets, FireEye’s Chris Sanders also cautioned those eager to quickly implement the list of IPs into network security defenses. “If you try to make an IDS rule out of all those IP’s you’re gonna generate a TON of alerts and have a bad time,” he tweeted. “Don’t build IDS rules from lists of IPs w/o context. This is # of matches for a group of avg size networks over ~30 days for DHS report IPs. “That said, if you want to practice some hunting, go wild. This is a good opportunity to practice your mass triage/search workflow,” he added in a separate tweet. US President-elect Donald Trump pledged to meet with leaders of the intelligence community next week in order to be “updated on the facts” on election related hacks by Russia. *Mike Lennon contributed to this report Related: Obama to Announce Retaliation Against Russia for Election Hacks Related: Russia-Linked Cyberspies Target Google Accounts Related: U.S. Vows Response to Russian Hack at 'Time and Place of our Choosing' (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Russia-Linked Hackers Leak Football Doping Files A group of hackers believed to be operating out of Russia has leaked emails and medical records related to football (soccer) players who used illegal substances. The group calls itself Fancy Bears and claims to be associated with the Anonymous hacktivist movement. They have set up a website, fancybears.net, where they leaked numerous files as part of a campaign dubbed “OpOlympics.” “Today Fancy Bears’ hack team is publishing the material leaked from various sources related to football,” the hackers said. “Football players and officials unanimously affirm that this kind of sport is free of doping. Our team perceived these numerous claims as a challenge and now we will prove they are lying.” The leaked files include emails exchanged between the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) and representatives of anti-doping agencies discussing the test results of various football players. The files also provide information on the number of players using illegal substances -- without specifically naming any players -- and therapeutic use exemptions (TUEs), which allow athletes to take prohibited substances for medical reasons. The files contain information on several important players allowed to use TUEs at the 2010 World Cup, including Mario Gomez, Carlos Tevez, Juan Sebastian Veron, Dirk Kuyt and Ryan Nelsen. However, the emails dumped by the hackers are dated as recent as June 2017. The hackers said they leaked the files to show that more than 150 players were caught doping in 2015, and the number increased to 200 in 2016. Both the Football Association and FIFA condemned the leak of confidential medical information. The same hacker group previously targeted the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). The hackers now also described the files as “WADA documents” and some of them appear to originate from the Anti-Doping Administration and Management System (ADAMS). SecurityWeek has reached out to WADA for comment. While the Fancy Bears that took credit for these attacks claim to be hacktivists, researchers have linked the previous leaks to Fancy Bear, a notorious cyber espionage group believed to be sponsored by the Russian government. The threat actor is tracked by various security firms as APT28, Pawn Storm, Sednit, Sofacy, Tsar Team and Strontium. The first Fancy Bear leak came shortly after investigations exposed state-sponsored doping in Russia. The latest release may have been triggered by similar events. “Previous Fancy Bear dumps were almost always retaliatory and in response to sanctions from various international sports organizations. When the Russian athletic team was banned from participating in World Athletics Championships in London, embarrassing IAAF doping reports about major Western athletes were made public,” explained Recorded Future’s Insikt Group. “As international pressure on Russia intensifies, with open calls to strip Russia of World Cup in 2018 and recent the FIFA investigation into suspected prohibited substance abuse of the national soccer team, today's release was almost guaranteed to surface,” it added. “The message reads very clear and loud - ‘Dare to touch us, we'll come after you. Don't expect us to remain silent and maintain status quo’.” UPDATE. WADA told SecurityWeek that the leaked files do not originate from its ADAMS system. The organization has provided the following statement: The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) is aware that, today, cyber espionage group ‘Fancy Bear’ once again released information; in particular, confidential athlete data regarding Therapeutic Use Exemptions (TUEs) on its website. As WADA takes data privacy very seriously, the Agency immediately examined the information; and, was quickly able to determine that it is not housed in WADA’s Anti-Doping Administration & Management System (ADAMS). Stakeholders can rest assured that ADAMS remains secure. We take this opportunity to reiterate that the TUE process is a means by which an athlete can obtain approval to use a prescribed prohibited substance or method for the treatment of a legitimate medical condition. The TUE program is a rigorous and necessary part of elite sport, which has overwhelming acceptance from athletes, physicians and all anti-doping stakeholders worldwide. This criminal activity undertaken by the cyber espionage group, which seeks to undermine the TUE program and the work of WADA and its partners in the protection of clean sport, is a clear violation of athletes’ rights. Related: Russian Hackers May Have Manipulated Leaked WADA Data Related: Attack on Olympics Anti-Doping Agency Linked to Russia (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Privacy Virus & Threats Incident Response Data Protection Cybercrime
Corporate Users Increasingly Targeted With Exploits: Kaspersky A report published by Kaspersky Lab on Thursday shows that the number of attacks involving exploits increased significantly in 2016 compared to the previous year, but the number of attacked users actually dropped. The security firm observed more than 700 million attempts to execute an exploit in 2016, which represents a 25% increase compared to 2015. However, the number of users attacked was only 4.3 million, compared to nearly 5.5 million in the previous year. This indicates that while fewer users encountered exploits, the likelihood of coming across an exploit increased as the number of websites and spam messages delivering such threats has continued to grow. Of all the exploit attacks observed by Kaspersky in 2016, more than 15% were aimed at corporate machines. The number of targeted corporate users increased from 538,000 in 2015 to 690,000 in 2016. While Windows and web browsers were the most targeted applications in both 2015 and 2016, their share decreased significantly last year, making more room for Android and Microsoft Office exploits. “Exploits for vulnerabilities in Office software became the absolute champions in terms of the number of attacked users. They increased by almost 103% to reach 367,167 attacked users,” Kaspersky said in its report. The security firm said more than 297,000 users were hit by zero-day or heavily obfuscated known exploits in 2016, and the most common exploit, same as in the previous year, was CVE-2010-2568, a vulnerability leveraged by the notorious Stuxnet malware. Between 2010 and 2016, malicious actors used more than 80 vulnerabilities in targeted attacks. The Russia-linked threat group known as APT28 and Fancy Bear leveraged 25 flaws, including at least six zero-days, followed by the NSA-linked Equation Group, which used roughly 17 vulnerabilities, including at least eight zero-days. Groups that launched targeted attacks have mainly relied on Windows flaws, followed by Flash Player, Office, Java and Internet Explorer. The most popular vulnerability is CVE-2012-0158, which is still being used by APT actors. Related: Exploit Kits Take Cyberattacks to the Masses, But They're Preventable Related: New Terror Exploit Kit Emerges (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Vulnerabilities Cybercrime
Usual Threats, But More Sophisticated and Faster: Report Almost Every Type of Cyber Attack is Increasing in Both Volume and Sophistication Eight new malware samples were recorded every second during the final three months of 2017. The use of fileless attacks, primarily via PowerShell, grew; and there was a surge in cryptocurrency hijacking malware. These were the primary threats outlined in the latest McAfee Lab's Threat Report (PDF) covering Q4 2017. The growth of cryptomining malware coincided with the surge in Bitcoin value, which peaked at just under $20,000 on Dec. 22. With the cost of dedicated mining hardware at upwards of $5,000 per machine, criminals chose to steal users' CPU time via malware. It demonstrates how criminals always follow the money, and choose the least expensive method of acquiring it with the greatest chance of avoiding detection. Since December, Bitcoin's value has fallen to $9,000 (at the time of publishing). Criminals' focus on Bitcoin is likewise being modified, with Ethereum and Monero becoming popular. Last week, Microsoft discovered a major campaign focused on stealing Electroneum. "We currently see discussions in underground forums that suggest moving from Bitcoin to Litecoin because the latter is a safer model with less chance of exposure," comments Raj Samani, chief scientist and McAfee fellow with the Advanced Threat Research Team. The speed with which criminals adapt to their latest market conditions is also seen in the way they maximize their asymmetric advantage. "Adversaries," writes Samani, "have the luxury of access to research done by the technical community, and can download and use opensource tools to support their campaigns, while the defenders’ level of insight into cybercriminal activities is considerably more limited, and identifying evolving tactics often must take place after malicious campaigns have begun." Examples of attackers making use of legitimate research include Fancy Bear (APT28) leveraging a Microsoft Office Dynamic Data Exchange technique in November 2017 that had been made public just a few weeks earlier. The hackers used it in a phishing campaign that cited the New York City terror attacks. A second example comes from the December Gold Dragon attacks on organizations involved with the Winter Olympics. In this case the attackers employed steganography, "and a new tool released days before the attack." The speed of changing tactics and adopting new techniques is in sharp contrast to the delays inherent in defending against new vulnerabilities -- with the two-months plus failure of Equifax to patch all of its systems with the Apache Struts patch being a prime example. Healthcare organizations remained a significant target throughout 2017, with a 210% increase in publicly disclosed incidents, year on year -- although figures declined 78% in Q4. McAfee's research conclusion is that many of the incidents were caused by failures to comply with security best practices or to address vulnerabilities in medical software. Botnets are a continuing problem. However, in Q4 2017, just two botnets, Necurs and Gamut, accounted for 97% of all spam botnet traffic. Gamut was responsible for delivering job offer-themed phishing (and possible money mule recruitment), in English, German, and Italian; while Necurs delivered 'lonely girl' spam, pump and dump stock spam, and Locky ransomware downloaders. New ransomware detections grew consistently throughout 2017, culminating in more than 2,000,000 detections in Q4 (compared to less than 500,000 in Q4, 2016). "A big contributor to ransomware growth was Ransom:Win32/Genasom (also known as Stampado, with variants such as 'Philadelphia'). This family provides an inexpensive entree for cyber criminals, being offered for sale as low as $39 for a lifetime license. Ransomware didn't merely increase in volume (59% year on year, and 35% in Q4 alone), it also diversified beyond just extorting money. "Actors devised strategies to create 'smoke and mirrors' by distracting defenders from actual attacks," writes Samani, "such as the emergence of pseudoransomware, seen in NotPetya and a Taiwan bank heist." The big takeaway from the latest McAfee Lab's Threat Report is that the cybersecurity threat landscape is continuing to worsen. Just about every type of attack is increasing in both volume and sophistication. The increasing use of PowerShell and JavaScript to avoid malicious file detection is just one example. In Q1 2016 there were around 2000 detections. By Q4 2017, this had grown to just under 48,000 -- boosted "by a rash of downloaders in Q4". (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware Cybercrime
IAAF Says Russia-Linked Hackers Accessed Medical Records The International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) revealed on Monday that athletes' medical records were accessed in an attack the organization believes was carried out by the Russia-linked cyber espionage group known as Fancy Bear. Fancy Bear is also known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team. The group is said to be responsible for many high-profile attacks, including the recent U.S. election hacks. The IAAF, which is based in Monaco, said it learned of the breach after it hired incident response firm Context Information Security in January to conduct a technical investigation. Investigators found signs of unauthorized remote access on February 21, when they discovered metadata on athletes' Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE) applications stored in a newly created file. The breach impacts athletes who have applied for TUEs since 2012. Affected individuals have been contacted by the IAAF. It's unclear if the attackers managed to exfiltrate the information they collected, but IAAF believes this provides a strong indication of what the attackers were after. The IAAF is confident the threat actor no longer has access to its networks following clean-up efforts assisted by Context, the UK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), and the Agence Monégasque de Sécurité Numérique (Monaco AMSN). This is not the first time Fancy Bear has been accused of targeting an athletic organization. Last year, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) said the hackers had stolen sensitive athlete data, including medical test results and TUEs. Researchers linked the attack on WADA to the Fancy Bear cyberspies, but a group calling itself “Fancy Bears,” claiming to be affiliated with the Anonymous hacktivist movement, also took responsibility for the breach and leaked some of the stolen files. In the WADA attack, hackers gained unauthorized access to the Anti-Doping Administration and Management System (ADAMS) after using a fake website to phish credentials. In the case of IAAF, there is no information on how the attackers may have gained access to the organization’s systems. Related: Hackers Target Czech Foreign Ministry's Email System Related: Russian Cyberspies Use New Mac Malware to Steal Data (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Incident Response Data Protection
France TV Cyberattack Probe Focused on 'Russian Hackers' The investigation into the cyberattack suffered by France's TV5Monde television channel in April is now focusing on "a group of Russian hackers", a judicial source told AFP on Tuesday. The cyberattack was carried out by unknown persons claiming to represent the Islamic State group, who shut down transmissions and placed jihadist propaganda messages on the station's website, and Facebook and Twitter accounts. But confirming information first published by L'Express newspaper, the judicial source said "the investigations are at this stage looking towards a group of Russian hackers designated by the name APT28." In a report to be published on Wednesday, L'Express said APT28, also known as "Pawn Storm", had previously tried to hack the White House and NATO members, as well as targeting Russian dissidents and Ukrainian activists. A source involved in the case told AFP the investigators were narrowing the search by probing the IP addresses of computers used in the attack. The TV5Monde station, which broadcasts worldwide, did not resume full operations for 18 hours after the hack on April 8, which authorities at the time said was likely a "terrorist act". The channel was forced to broadcast pre-recorded programs after what TV5Monde boss Yves Bigot described as a cyber-attack "unprecedented in the history of television." The hackers posted documents on TV5Monde's Facebook page purporting to be the identity cards and CVs of relatives of French soldiers involved in anti-IS operations, along with threats against the troops. "Soldiers of France, stay away from the Islamic State! You have the chance to save your families, take advantage of it," read one message on the hacked Facebook page. "The CyberCaliphate continues its cyberjihad against the enemies of Islamic State," the message added. Just hours before the attack, the Islamic State extremist group had published a video praising their "knights of the media" carrying out cyber-attacks and urged them to step up their efforts. Related: 'Operation Pawn Storm' Continues to Step Up Attack Activity (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
Microsoft Patches Office Zero-Day Bug Used by APT Group Microsoft on Tuesday patched several memory corruption vulnerabilities in Office, including one that had been exploited in the wild by a well known advanced persistent threat (APT) actor. Trend Micro reported earlier this week that the Russian threat group Pawn Storm (also known as APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, Sofacy and Tsar Team) had been leveraging an Oracle Java zero-day vulnerability in attacks against the armed forces of a NATO member country, and defense organizations in the United States and Canada. According to iSIGHT Partners, this isn’t the only zero-day bug used recently by the group. On June 30, the threat intelligence company discovered that Pawn Storm had been exploiting an unpatched vulnerability in Microsoft Office (CVE-2015-2424). iSIGHT Partners immediately notified Microsoft and the flaw was patched when the company released its July 2015 security updates. “When we found the exploit it appeared to be under development and evidence suggests it was deployed in Georgia,” iSIGHT Partners noted in a blog post. The Microsoft Office zero-day exploited by the threat actor is a heap corruption vulnerability triggered during processing of a malformed Microsoft Forms Image. The flaw affects Office 2013 SP1 and prior, and it can be exploited to execute arbitrary code via a specially crafted Office document. In the Pawn Storm attack spotted by iSIGHT, the attackers used a document named “Iran_nuclear_talks.rtf” to hide the exploit. Brian Bartholomew, senior researcher in the Cyber Espionage Threat Intelligence team at iSIGHT Partners, told SecurityWeek that the content of the lure document was ripped from a June 28 CNN article on nuclear talks with Iran. When the document was opened, an embedded OLE object triggered the vulnerability and a dropper payload was written and executed on the targeted system. The dropper then dropped a Sofacy malware payload. “Based on several artifacts in the exploit document and the unreliability of successful exploitation when running the exploit document, iSIGHT Partners believes the exploit document was potentially hastily thrown together, or the exploit is still being developed to be more reliable,” iSIGHT explained. The threat group, which the security firm calls Tsar Team, has also leveraged at least one of the zero-day exploits leaked after the Hacking Team breach. Bartholomew told SecurityWeek that iSIGHT has observed Tsar Team using one of the three Adobe Flash Player exploits (CVE-2015-5119) from the Hacking Team leak. “While this is the only one we have observed in use by this team, it is not out of the realm of possibility that they may have repurposed any of the other five released zero-days from Hacking Team,” said Bartholomew. “5119 was re-written and in use by Tsar Team within 24 hours of the exploit being released on the Internet. In April, FireEye reported that the threat group had used Flash Player and Windows zero-days in a highly targeted attack aimed at an international government entity. iSIGHT Partners has been monitoring the APT actor’s activities and the company believes that the group is actually behind the hacktivist group known as Cyber Caliphate, which attacked several companies apparently in support of ISIS. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Russia's Hackers Long Tied to Military, Secret Services During the Soviet era, the country's top computer scientists and programmers largely worked for the secret services. That practice appears to have resumed under President Vladimir Putin, as Russia faces accusations of waging a global campaign of cyber attacks. Dutch officials on Thursday accused four Russians from the GRU military intelligence agency of attempting to hack into the global chemical weapons watchdog in The Hague. The agency has investigated both the fatal poisoning of Russian former double-agent Sergei Skripal; and an alleged chemical attack by Moscow-allied Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The Baltic states were the first to accuse Moscow of mounting attacks to knock out their sites back in 2007. Estonia said one such attack had put the country's main emergency service phone number out of action for over an hour. Since then, accusations of cyber attacks have continued against Moscow. The Russian hacker group variously known as Fancy Bear, APT 28 and Sofacy has been linked to GRU and accused of attacks on the US Democrats' 2016 presidential campaign, together with Russia's FSB security service, the successor to the KGB. The skills of Russian hackers today developed from a tradition of excellent computing and programming skills dating back to the Soviet era. "The whole structure of the economy was skewed towards the military sector," said Oleg Demidov, a consultant at the Moscow-based independent think-tank PIR Center. "All the achievements of Soviet science including the first computers went to serve the military sector." The most brilliant students were pushed to work in the military and space sector, he added. - Banking crime - After the Soviet Union fell apart in 1991, its armed forces were broken up and most of the top specialists turned to the nascent banking sector in Russia, either to work there or to attack it. In this era saw the first cyber attacks on banking operations and the first mentions of Russian hackers. "Now Russian hackers are excellently trained and equipped and they still occupy one of the top positions in banking crime," said Demidov -- even if the Russian justice system has begun to crack down on them. In 2016, Russian cybersecurity giant Kaspersky estimated that between 2012 and 2015, Russian hackers had stolen at least $790 million worldwide. Russian computer scientists study at "very strong universities in Saint Petersburg, Moscow, Novosibirsk, Kazan or Krasnoyarsk", said Denis Kuskov of TelecomDaily specialised research agency. They "can work anywhere in the world, in any international company," he added. In recent years, however, more have opted to stay in Russia, he said. "The secret services have grown more interested in good programmers and it's easier for them to find work in Russia now." In 2012, the Russian defence ministry announced it was creating its own "cyber troops". It launched a wide recruitment drive that included promotional videos on social media. For Demidov, the growing wave of attacks attributed to Russian hackers has come about as Russia becomes better able to defend its own cyber security more strongly, the military sphere included. "These efforts... have began to bring results," he said. Today however, even the most established players in Russian IT are in the sights of the West. The US in 2017 imposed a ban on the use of Kaspersky's anti-virus software by federal agencies amid concerns about the company's links to the Russian intelligence services. While many young Russians may choose to work for the military and secret services for reasons of patriotism, some may still be more interested by the money. This week a military tribunal in Moscow held a closed-doors trial for the head of operational control at the FSB's centre for information security, Colonel Sergei Mikhalkov and three alleged accomplices. Kommersant daily reported that they were accused of passing secrets on the Russian secret services' cyber technology to the FBI in return for $10 million. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
Adobe to Patch Flash Zero-Day Exploited by Russian Attackers Adobe announced on Wednesday that it expects to release a patch for the recently disclosed Flash Player zero-day exploited in targeted attacks by a Russian threat group during the week of October 19. According to the company, the critical vulnerability (CVE-2015-7645) affects Flash Player 19.0.0.207 and earlier for Windows and Mac, and 11.2.202.535 and earlier 11.x versions for Linux. Adobe noted in its advisory that it’s aware of limited, targeted attacks exploiting the flaw. The existence of the security hole was brought to light on Tuesday, shortly after Adobe released a Flash Player update that addressed 13 issues. Researchers at Trend Micro discovered the vulnerability while analyzing the operations of the Russian threat actor Pawn Storm (also known as APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, Sofacy and Tsar Team). The group, which is believed to be linked to the Russian government, has been exploiting the Flash Player zero-day in attacks aimed at several Ministries of Foreign Affairs from all over the world. The attackers lured their victims to websites hosting the exploit via spear phishing emails that used suicide car bombings in Kabul, airstrikes in Syria and Gaza, and other military-related topics as a lure. Researchers have pointed out that the URLs used by the APT group were similar to the ones spotted earlier this year in attacks aimed at the White House and NATO members. The cyber espionage actor, which has been around since at least 2007, has targeted military, government, media, and defense organizations from across the world. Pawn Storm has used six zero-day vulnerabilities in the last year, Tom Kellermann, chief cybersecurity officer at Trend Micro, told SecurityWeek on Tuesday. This includes Java, Windows, and Flash Player zero-days, including some of the exploits leaked as a result of the breach suffered earlier this year by the Italian spyware maker Hacking Team. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Vulnerabilities
Denmark Says Russia Hacked Defense Ministry Emails Denmark on Monday denounced Moscow's "aggressive" behavior after a report accused Russian hackers of infiltrating the defense ministry's email accounts. "This is part of a continuing war from the Russian side in this field, where we are seeing a very aggressive Russia," Defense Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen told Danish news agency Ritzau. A report published Sunday by the Centre for Cyber Security accused a group of pro-Kremlin hackers of breaking into the emails of defense ministry employees in 2015 and 2016. "The hacked emails don't contain military secrets, but it is of course serious," Frederiksen said. The report identified the hacker group as APT28, also known as Pawn Storm, Sofacy and Fancy Bear, which has links to the Russian government and security services and has previously been named by the FBI and US Homeland Security as being behind "malicious cyber activity" against US government bodies. The group is also believed to be behind other high-profile cyber attacks. In Denmark, the Centre for Cyber Security said earlier this year that the threat against Danish authorities and companies remained "very high". (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
French Presidential Candidate Targeted by Russia-Linked Hackers A notorious cyber espionage group linked to the Russian government has targeted the political party of French presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron, according to a report published on Tuesday by Trend Micro. The news comes shortly after Macron won the first round of France’s presidential election. Many believe he will become the county’s next president after he was endorsed by several top politicians, including former opponents in the presidential race. Trend Micro’s report describes the activities of the threat actor known as Pawn Storm, APT28, Fancy Bear, Sofacy, Sednit and Strontium. Researchers have identified tens of military, government, defense, media, political, religious, educational and international organizations targeted by the group. An analysis of the phishing domains used by the hackers suggests that one of the targets was Macron’s campaign. The attackers registered the domain onedrive-en-marche.fr, which is similar to en-marche.fr, the official website of Marcon’s En Marche! party, likely in an effort to get users to hand over their credentials. Macron’s campaign has confirmed for The Wall Street Journal that staffers received phishing emails, but claimed the hacking attempts had failed. The National Cybersecurity Agency of France (ANSSI) also confirmed the attacks, but refused to comment on their origin, Reuters reported. A representative of En Marche! has accused Russia of interfering with the elections in an effort to help pro-Moscow candidates, but Russia has denied any involvement in the hacker attacks. According to Trend Micro, the En Marche phishing site was set up in mid-March. The security firm also discovered a phishing domain apparently set up to target the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung (KAS) political foundation in Germany. The KAS phishing site, named kassap.de, was created in early April. Last year, Trend Micro also reported seeing a Pawn Storm attack aimed at Germany’s Christian Democratic Union, the political party of Chancellor Angela Merkel. Pawn Storm’s political operations have made a lot of headlines, particularly after the group targeted organizations affiliated with the Democratic Party in the United States. The U.S. officially accused Russia of launching the cyberattacks, and authorities confirmed recently that an investigation is underway to determine if the attacks had an impact on this year’s presidential elections. Trend Micro pointed out in its report that Pawn Storm has often relied on so-called false flag operations. Individuals and groups claiming to be hacktivists have taken credit for several of the attacks attributed to Pawn Storm. For instance, an individual using the online moniker Guccifer 2.0 has taken credit for the Democratic Party attacks, and a group calling itself Fancy Bears claimed to have been behind the attack on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). Several other “hacktivist” groups have been connected to Pawn Storm, including Cyber Caliphate, which claimed to be linked to ISIS when it attacked the U.S. Army and French TV station TV5Monde back in 2015. Related: FBI Probes Democratic Email Hack, but is Russia to Blame? Related: Google Launches Free "Protect Your Election" Service (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
Industry Reactions to U.S. Indicting 12 Russians for DNC Hack The U.S. last week indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers over their alleged role in a hacking operation targeting the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. The charges, part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s attempt to interfere in the presidential election, were announced just days before President Donald Trump met his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin. Industry professionals have commented on the charges, their impact, the possible threat actors responsible for the operation, and how these types of attacks can be avoided. And the feedback begins... John Hultquist, Director of Intelligence Analysis, FireEye: “While we had already been aware of much of the information covered in the indictment, there were several interesting insights into the organizations that lie behind the intrusion operators we track. In particular, the document indicates that more than one GRU unit was involved in efforts to undermine the elections. The first of these units, Unit 26165, resembles APT28, the operator who we originally suspected of carrying out the DNC incident. The second of these two units, Unit 74455, is implicated in incidents affecting election systems. We have been actively tracking an actor we believe was tied to those incidents, and have found some connection between those incidents and others, such as efforts to target the 2017 French elections, and disruptive attacks on the 2018 Olympics, as well as other incidents. Ultimately, though much of their activity remains opaque, we believe GRU organizations have been behind many of the most aggressive incidents in recent memory, including the economically devastating NotPetya attacks and attacks on Ukraine’s grid.” John Gomez, CEO, Sensato: “When you consider all that is going on and developing with the Russian hackers, it is important to note that we are very much in the embryonic stages of learning what, specifically, occurred. As more and more comes to light, I suspect we will come to appreciate the high level of sophistication that was employed to carry out the attacks. This attack was planned far in advance. It relied upon the coordination of various assets, including the development of fake personas, the recruitment of cybercriminals, monitoring news feeds, and establishing on-the-ground assets that could be plied for information and intelligence. The attackers timed the attacks to shake confidence and cause confusion. Although the Russian hackers targeted our government, the real lesson here is that this level of sophistication is not isolated to the Russian hackers identified in the U.S Federal indictment. Rather, we are seeing that other criminal organizations, nation states, and even terrorists are employing the same level of sophistication in their operations. This development with Russia simply highlights what many of us have known all along: Attackers, regardless of motivation, have matured their tactics, techniques, and procedures. They’re innovating at a pace that far outstrips the defenses that most organizations have erected. Even basic attacks, such as phishing, are not the same approaches used a few years ago. We may be appalled, shocked, and even outraged. Yet, maybe the biggest lesson is that despite all efforts, we failed at protecting one of our most treasured assets--the democratic process. What is more appalling is that many will continue to believe that the adversaries our IT organizations faced just a few years ago are the same adversaries our IT organizations face today. Hopefully, what has occurred with Russia will be a wake-up call, not only at the national level, but within our own organizations. If Russia can manipulate an electoral process, what could they and other, highly focused, well-funded cyber attackers do to our economy, our healthcare organizations, and other critical infrastructure systems like transportation or communications?” Richard Ford, Chief Scientist, Forcepoint: “We shouldn’t be distracted by talks of how they did this or why but instead – how will the international community respond to these types of asymmetric attacks that impact the very core of our democratic process? While an indictment is a nice gesture, it has little real consequences beyond drawing yet more attention to the issue. Cybersecurity knows no borders, and so it is relatively easy for a nation state – or even an enthusiastic group of individuals – to launch attacks from the safety of their own country that can be impactful but carry very little personal risk. How we decide to treat these offensive cyber operations is one of the most pressing questions of our time, and those questions cannot be answered by governments alone. Attacks often involve third-party infrastructure, and vulnerabilities in this infrastructure have to be addressed by those in the commercial world. It’s time for us as an international community to truly come together and determine not only what constitutes acceptable behavior online at the nation state level, but what checks and balances can be meaningfully put in place to those states that refuse to adhere to these agreed upon practices.” Ross Rustici, Head of Intelligence Research, Cybereason: "This further confirms the links already exposed from the indictments related to the social media influence campaigns. The concentrated effort of the Russia state to influence the election is undeniable. The most surprising thing about this is not only the relative ease of the intrusions but the wide spread campaign perpetrated by the GRU. This only serves to reinforce the dramatic changes that the internet has brought to influence operations around world. The ease with which intelligence agencies can have a direct influence in the information age is something that they could only dream of during the Cold War." Kevin Mitnick, Chief Hacking Officer, KnowBe4: “After reading the Russian indictment I was surprised to see that the Russians use the same exact methods we use to test our client's security controls. Our security engineers have never failed to get in when we can use social engineering (phishing, etc) during an assessment. The biggest takeaway was that spearphishing is *still* the easiest way the bad guys get in. Why the DNC didn't use Multi-Factor Authentication is beyond me. I believe it is the lack of security awareness training that made it easy for the Russians to hack our election.” Leo Taddeo, CISO, Cyxtera: “The indictment teaches cyber security professionals several important lessons. Many legacy security solutions, even when used in combination, simply aren’t designed to mitigate the risks presented by today's adversaries. A user-Centric, context-aware model is non-negotiable – Access controls that require only user name and password are effectively useless. Given the seemingly unstoppable effectiveness of spearphishing, enterprises must assume that one or more of their users has had their credentials compromised. An effective security solution must do more than just verify a user name and password. It must be be able to tell if the context of a remote connection is suspicious, such as if it originates from an unusual location or time of day, or from a device with no antivirus software installed. It should also be able to ask for additional authentication steps like one-time passwords (OTP), adjust user permissions on the fly and ultimately block access according to the level of risk. To accomplish this, organizations must adopt a user-centric context-aware model that is built on the principle of least privilege. Authenticate first, connect second – The indictment specifically calls out that the conspirators conducted scanning on the network IP protocols. The fundamental reason for this vulnerability is that TCP/IP – which was originally designed to operate in an environment where the user community knew and trusted each other – is based on implicit trust, with a “connect first, authenticate second” approach. In today’s hyperconnected and highly adversarial threat landscape, this approach puts organizations at risk. Alternate access control technologies, such as Software-Defined Perimeter (SDP), are built on an “authenticate first, connect second” approach ensure that only authorized users can connect to network resources. This reduces the attack surface and significantly improves security. With Software Defined Perimeter, all resources are invisible to the dangerous reconnaissance techniques outlined in the indictment. Manage the risks of third-party access – The indictment reveals the conspirators hacked into the DNC’s computers through their access to the DCCC network. Then, they installed and managed different types of malware to explore the DNC network and steal documents. This highlights the need for organizations to better manage the risks of third-party access. By using a solution that leverages the Software-Defined Perimeter (SDP) security framework, organizations can ensure that all endpoints attempting to access a given infrastructure are authenticated and authorized prior to accessing any resources on the network. This not only applies the principle of least privilege to the network, it also reduces the attack surface area by hiding network resources from unauthorized or unauthenticated users.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Tracking & Law Enforcement Cybercrime Management & Strategy
Vermont Utility Refutes Reports of Russia Hacking U.S. Electric Grid U.S. officials told the press that Russia hacked into the country’s electric grid, but the affected utility said it had only found malware on one device that was not connected to the grid. The Washington Post on Saturday cited anonymous U.S. officials claiming that Russian hackers breached the electric grid. The article, titled “Russian hackers penetrated U.S. electric grid through a utility in Vermont,” led to several politicians making alarming statements on Russia and hackers. The Vermont utility referenced by The Washington Post, the Burlington Electric Department, published a statement refuting the claims. Last week, just as the Obama administration announced retaliation against Russia over the presidential election cyberattacks, the DHS and the FBI published a Joint Analysis Report (JAR) to detail the tools and infrastructure used by Russian civilian and military intelligence services in attacks aimed at networks and endpoints associated with the election and various other government, political, and private sector entities. This malicious activity, dubbed by the U.S. government “Grizzly Steppe,” included attacks launched by two well-known Russia-linked threat groups tracked as APT28 (aka Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Strontium, Sofacy, Sednit and Tsar Team) and APT29 (aka Cozy Bear and CozyDuke). However, security experts have criticized the U.S. government for failing to provide strong evidence that Russia did in fact attempt to interfere with the presidential election. Furthermore, some warned that the indicators of compromise (IoC) provided in the JAR are low quality and could lead to false positives. After the Grizzly Steppe report was published, Burlington Electric conducted a scan of all its computers in an effort to determine if any devices had been infected with Grizzly Steppe malware. Suspicious Internet traffic was detected on a single computer, which had not been connected to the electric grid. “There is no indication that either our electric grid or customer information has been compromised,” the Vermont utility stated. “Media reports stating that Burlington Electric was hacked or that the electric grid was breached are false.” “Federal officials have indicated that this specific type of Internet traffic also has been observed elsewhere in the country and is not unique to Burlington Electric. It’s unfortunate that an official or officials improperly shared inaccurate information with one media outlet, leading to multiple inaccurate reports around the country,” it added. The Washington Post has rewritten its story, clarifying that authorities had not actually found any evidence that the grid had been breached. However, experts say even the new headline, “Russian operation hacked a Vermont utility, showing risk to U.S. electrical grid security,” is FUD. 1. No they did not penetrate the grid. 2. The IOCs contained commodity malware - can't attribute based off that alone. https://t.co/AMNMVzFpFW — Robert M. Lee (@RobertMLee) December 31, 2016 On the other hand, many experts believe the U.S. power grid is vulnerable to cyberattacks. “Based on existing intelligence, it is reasonable to assume that nation-states already possess all the information they need to launch such an attack on the U.S. power grid - they choose not to because of political implications,” Tim Layton, chief intelligence officer at SurfWatch Labs, said in a SecurityWeek column. “I also believe the USA possesses the same capabilities. It isn't just nation-states that we need to be concerned with, as radical terrorist groups are highly motivated to bring harm to the American people and economy.” While there is no evidence of destructive cyberattacks on the U.S. electric grid, such attacks have been launched in Ukraine. The Russian government is believed to be responsible for the December 2015 attack that caused severe power outages, and a recent incident may have also been caused by a cyberattack. Related: Trump to Meet U.S. Spy Chiefs to Get Russian Hacking 'Facts' Related: Spies and Hackers - Russians Sanctioned by US (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY SCADA / ICS Virus & Threats Risk Management Malware
Russian Cyberspies Use Updated Arsenal to Attack Defense Contractors A Russia-linked cyber espionage group has been using new tools in attacks against defense contractors and other high profile targets, Kaspersky Lab reported on Friday. The threat actor, known as Pawn Storm, Strontium, APT28, Sofacy, Sednit and Fancy Bear, has been actively targeting military, media, defense and government organizations from across the world since 2007. Entities in NATO countries have been primarily targeted, but researchers recently spotted an increase in attacks aimed at Ukraine. Pawn Storm has been known to use zero-day exploits targeting Adobe Flash Player, Java, Microsoft Office and Windows in its operations. The attackers have also leveraged a wide range of tools to achieve their goals, including backdoors such as SPLM (also known as Xagent and CHOPSTICK) and AZZY (aka ADVSTORESHELL, NETUI and EVILTOSS), and USB stealers designed for data theft from air-gapped systems. Implants dubbed JHUHUGIT and JKEYSKW have also been observed in Pawn Storm attacks. Up until August, Pawn Storm leveraged zero-day exploits to infect systems with JHUHUGIT and JKEYSKW first-stage implants. However, in August, Kaspersky Lab researchers spotted a new version of the AZZY Trojan, which is mainly used for reconnaissance, while investigating a wave of attacks aimed at defense organizations. Experts said the campaign was still ongoing in November. The new AZZY, most recently seen in an October attack, had been delivered by another piece of malware instead of a zero-day exploit. An analysis of the threat revealed that unlike previous variants, the new AZZY backdoor has been using an external library for command and control (C&C) communications. “In the past, the Sofacy developers modified earlier AZZY backdoors to use a C&C server encoded in the registry, instead of storing it in the malware itself, so this code modularisation follows the same line of thinking,” Kaspersky researchers noted in a blog post. Pawn Storm has also updated its data theft tools. The spy group’s USB stealer modules, used for stealing data from isolated networks, were first updated in February 2015 and the latest versions appear to have been compiled in May 2015, Kaspersky said. Older versions of USBStealer malware were analyzed by researchers at ESET in November 2014. The USBStealer compiled in May is designed to monitor the infected device for USB drives and collect specified files from them. The files are copied to a hidden folder from where they can be exfiltrated using the AZZY backdoor. “Two recurring characteristics of the Sofacy group that we keep seeing in its attacks are speed and the use of multi-backdoor packages for extreme resilience,” researchers said. “In the past, the group used droppers that installed both the SPLM and AZZY backdoors on the same machine. If one of them was detected, the other one provided the attacker with continued access.” Pawn Storm also appears to be interested in Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17, a plane that crashed in July 2014 after being hit by a Russian-made missile while flying over a conflict zone in eastern Ukraine. Trend Micro reported in October that the attackers targeted organizations tasked with investigating the incident. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
+2 2 0 2 Votes Symantec Official Blog Adobe patches Flash Player vulnerability used in Pawn Storm APT campaign Adobe has issued an emergency patch for a new Flash Player vulnerability (CVE-2015-7645) exploited by attackers behind the Operation Pawn Storm campaign. By: Symantec Security Response Symantec Employee Created 19 Oct 2015 0 Comments : 日本語 Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email On October 16, Adobe released an emergency patch for a new Adobe Flash Player vulnerability (CVE-2015-7645), which was reportedly used by the attackers behind the Operation Pawn Storm (also known as APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, or Tsar Team) advanced persistent threat (APT) campaign. The vulnerability affects Adobe Flash Player 19.0.0.207 and earlier versions for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux. Adobe rates the vulnerability as critical and notes that successful exploitation could result in a crash as well as potentially allow an attacker to take control of the affected computer. Symantec is not aware of any indication that the vulnerability is widely exploited in the wild. The attack group is not new to the usage of zero-day vulnerabilities, as in July 2015, it exploited a then zero-day vulnerability in Java. Mitigation Users who are concerned about this issue can temporarily disable Adobe Flash Player in their browser by taking the following steps: Internet Explorer versions 10 and 11 Open Internet Explorer Click on the “Tools” menu, and then click “Manage add-ons” Under “Show”, select “All add-ons” Select “Shockwave Flash Object” and then click on the “Disable” button You can reenable Adobe Flash Player by repeating the same process, selecting “Shockwave Flash Object”, and then clicking on the “Enable” button. Guidance for users of earlier versions of Internet Explorer is available on the Microsoft website. Select the version of Internet Explorer you are using at the top right corner. Firefox Open Firefox Open the browser menu and click “Add-ons” Select the “Plugins” tab Select “Shockwave Flash” and click “Disable” You can reenable Adobe Flash Player by repeating the same process, selecting “Shockwave Flash”, and then clicking on the “Enable” button. Chrome Type “chrome:plugins” in the address bar to open the page On the Plugins page that appears, find the "Flash" listing To disable Adobe Flash Player completely, click the "Disable" link under its name To enable Adobe Flash Player, click the "Enable" link under its name Protection Symantec has added coverage for the publicly available proof-of-concept code for this Flash Player vulnerability as: Antivirus: Exp.CVE-2015-7645 Investigations into this attack are ongoing and additional protections may be added. In the meantime, customers are advised to apply the patch as soon as possible. The update also plugs two other security holes (CVE-2015-7647 and CVE-2015-7648) that were not covered by the monthly updates issued on October 13. File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Endpoint Protection, Security Response, Adobe, Adobe Flash Player, CVE-2015-7645, CVE-2015-7647, CVE-2015-7648, Exp.CVE-2015-7645, Vulnerabilities, zero-day, zero-day vulnerability Groups: Subscriptions (0)
+2 2 0 2 Votes Symantec Official Blog Java zero-day vulnerability used in limited attacks Vulnerability is reported to be exploitable by way of drive-by-download on the latest version of Java (1.8.0.45). By: Symantec Security Response Symantec Employee Created 13 Jul 2015 0 Comments : 日本語 Bookmark Google+0 LinkedIn0 Twitter submit Email Symantec is investigating reports that a zero-day vulnerability in Java is being exploited in a limited number of attacks. Oracle, the developer behind Java, has yet to release a patch or comment on the vulnerability. The vulnerability is reported to be exploitable by way of drive-by download on the latest version of Java (1.8.0.45). Symantec regards this vulnerability as critical since Java is a widely used platform. The attackers behind this zero-day vulnerability have been linked to the APT group Operation Pawn Storm (also known as APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, or Tsar Team). This is the first Java zero-day reported since 2013, however a vulnerability in this widely used platform does pose a significant risk. While no patch has been issued for the vulnerability, users who are concerned about this issue can temporarily disable Java in the browser by following these steps: How do I disable Java in my web browser? Symantec customers are protected against the payload reportedly being dropped by this zero-day vulnerability with the following detections: Antivirus Trojan.Sofacy Intrusion Prevention System System Infected: Trojan.Sofacy Activity We will continue to investigate this vulnerability and provide more details as they become available. Update – July 14, 2015: Oracle has released a patch to address the zero-day vulnerability discussed in this blog, the Oracle Java SE Remote Security Vulnerability (CVE-2015-2590). The July 2015 Critical Patch Update contains a total of 193 security fixes across Oracle products, including 25 fixes for Oracle Java SE. File Attachments: Protected Attachments: Page Views: Operating Systems: Tags: Products, Endpoint Protection, Security Response, 0day, Java, Vulnerabilities & Exploits Groups: Subscriptions (0)
Posted: 4 Oct, 2018 5 Min Read Election Security Subscribe Follow twitter facebook linkedin APT28: New Espionage Operations Target Military and Government Organizations Recent campaigns see APT28 group return to covert intelligence gathering operations in Europe and South America. After making headlines during 2016 due to its involvement in cyber attacks against an organization involved in the U.S. presidential election, APT28 (aka Swallowtail, Fancy Bear) has continued to mount operations during 2017 and 2018. The espionage group, which according to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is linked to the Russian government, returned to low-key intelligence-gathering operations during 2017 and into 2018, targeting a range of military and government targets in Europe and South America. History of disruptive attacks APT28 has been active since at least January 2007 but received public attention in a major way during 2016 when it was implicated in a series of cyber attacks in the run up to the U.S. presidential election. Beginning in the Spring of 2016, APT28 sent spear-phishing emails to political targets including members of the Democratic National Committee (DNC). These emails were designed to trick recipients into supposedly changing their email passwords on a fake webmail domain. The attack group then used these stolen credentials to gain access to the DNC network, install malware, move across the network, and steal data, including a trove of emails. The compromised information was later leaked online. These election attacks signaled a change of tactics on the part of APT28, moving away from their prior low-key intelligence gathering towards more overt activity, seemingly intended to destabilize and disrupt victim organizations and countries. The group was also responsible for the 2016 attack on the World Anti Doping Agency (WADA) and the leaking of confidential drug testing information. In keeping with its shift to more overt tactics, the group appeared to publicly take credit for the attack, leaking the information on a website using the name “Fancy Bears”, an industry codename that was already widely used for the group. Return to the shadows After receiving an unprecedented amount of attention in 2016, APT28 has continued to mount operations during 2017 and 2018. However, the group’s activities since the beginning of 2017 have again become more covert and appear to be mainly motivated by intelligence gathering. The organizations targeted by APT28 during 2017 and 2018 include: A well-known international organization Military targets in Europe Governments in Europe A government of a South American country An embassy belonging to an Eastern European country Ongoing development of tools APT28 uses a number of tools to compromise its targets. The group’s primary malware is Sofacy, which has two main components. Trojan.Sofacy (also known as Seduploader) performs basic reconnaissance on an infected computer and can download further malware. Backdoor.SofacyX (also known as X-Agent) is a second stage piece of malware, capable of stealing information from the infected computer. A Mac version of the Trojan also exists (OSX.Sofacy). APT28 has continued to develop its tools over the past two years. For example, Trojan.Shunnael (aka X-Tunnel), malware used to maintain access to infected networks using an encrypted tunnel, underwent a rewrite to .NET. In addition to this, as reported by our peers at ESET last week, the group has also begun using a UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) rootkit known as Lojax. Because the rootkit resides within a computer’s flash memory, it allows the attackers to maintain a persistent presence on a compromised machine even if the hard drive is replaced or the operating system is reinstalled. Symantec products block attempts to install Lojax with the detection name Trojan.Lojax. Possible links to other espionage operations Another attack group, Earworm (aka Zebrocy), has been active since at least May 2016 and is involved in what appears to be intelligence gathering operations against military targets in Europe, Central Asia, and Eastern Asia. The group uses spear-phishing emails to compromise its targets and infect them with malware. Earworm uses two malware tools. Trojan.Zekapab is a downloader component that is capable of carrying out basic reconnaissance functions and downloading additional malware to the infected computer. Backdoor.Zekapab is installed on selected infected computers and is capable of taking screenshots, executing files and commands, uploading and downloading files, performing registry and file system operations, and carrying out system information tasks. Earworm has also on occasion installed additional tools onto infected computers for the purposes of keylogging and password capture. During 2016, Symantec observed some overlap between the command and control (C&C) infrastructure used by Earworm and the C&C infrastructure used by Grizzly Steppe (the U.S. government code name for APT28 and related actors), implying a potential connection between Earworm and APT28. However, Earworm also appears to conduct separate operations from APT28 and thus Symantec tracks them as a distinct group. An ongoing threat It is now clear that after being implicated in the U.S. presidential election attacks in late 2016, APT28 was undeterred by the resulting publicity and continues to mount further attacks using its existing tools. After its foray into overt and disruptive attacks in 2016, the group has subsequently returned to its roots, mounting intelligence gathering operations against a range of targets. This ongoing activity and the fact that APT28 continues to refine its toolset means that the group will likely continue to pose a significant threat to nation state targets. Protection Symantec has had the following protections in place to protect customers against APT28 attacks: Trojan.Sofacy Backdoor.SofacyX Infostealer.Sofacy OSX.Sofacy Trojan.Shunnael Trojan.Lojax The following protections are in place to protect customers against Earworm attacks: Trojan.Zekapab Backdoor.Zekapab Threat Intelligence Customers of the DeepSight Intelligence Managed Adversary and Threat Intelligence (MATI) service have received reports on the “Swallowtail” (also known as APT28), which detail methods of detecting and thwarting activities of this adversary. File Attachments APT28 indicators of compromise TXT 1.77 KB About the Author Security Response Attack Investigation Team The Attack Investigation Team is a group of security experts within Symantec Security Response whose mission is to investigate targeted attacks, drive enhanced protection in Symantec products, and offer analysis which helps customers respond to attacks. Want to comment on this post? We encourage you to share your thoughts on your favorite social platform. Twitter LinkedIn Facebook
Posted: 18 Sep, 2018 4 Min Read Election Security Subscribe Follow twitter facebook linkedin Subverting Democracy: How Cyber Attackers Try to Hack the Vote Everything you need to know about APT28 and APT29, the attackers that attempted to influence the U.S. presidential election. The U.S. midterm elections are taking place on November 6 and, given what happened in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election, many voters may be concerned about whether foreign espionage actors will once again attempt to influence the vote. Cyber attacks played a central role in the 2016 campaign, creating some of the main controversies of the campaign. Multiple organizations were targeted, with the most talked about incident being the attack on the Democratic National Committee (DNC) which resulted in nearly 20,000 internal emails being leaked. With the midterm elections now around the corner, there are naturally concerns about further attacks. Here’s a short primer on the 2016 attacks and what tactics were used by the attackers: How can cyber espionage groups interfere with elections? While there are many ways a cyber espionage actor could potentially interfere with an election, proven cases to date have involved compromising targeted organizations in order to steal and leak information in the hope that it could influence the outcome and/or sow distrust in the political process. During the 2016 U.S. presidential election, two cyber espionage groups—APT28 and APT29 —compromised a number of political targets, including the DNC, and stole a cache of information, including a large number of emails. These emails were then leaked online, and their contents became a significant talking point during the campaign. According to the U.S. government, both APT28 and APT29 are linked to the Russian government. Who is APT28? APT28 (aka Sofacy, Fancy Bear, Swallowtail, Tsar Team, Sednit) is believed to be a Russian cyber espionage group which has been active since at least January 2007. The group was initially known for traditional, information-stealing espionage campaigns, targeting governments in the U.S. and Europe. It became involved in more overt, disruptive operations in the run-up to the 2016 U.S. presidential election. It was also responsible for the 2016 attack on the World Anti Doping Agency (WADA) and subsequent leak of drug testing information. How does APT28 infiltrate targets? The group has been known to employ a variety of methods to gain access to targeted organizations’ networks. These include spear-phishing emails, watering hole websites, infected storage devices, and exploitation of software vulnerabilities, including zero-day vulnerabilities. During the 2016 U.S. presidential election attacks, APT28 used spear-phishing emails that tricked recipients into supposedly changing their email passwords on a fake webmail domain. The group then used these stolen credentials to gain access to email accounts and steal the contents. This information was later leaked. What tools does APT28 use? Symantec has seen APT28 use a number of custom malware tools, including: Infostealer.Sofacy OSX.Sofacy Trojan.Sofacy Trojan.Modruner Who is APT29? APT29 (aka Cozy Bear, Fritillary, the Dukes) is believed to be a Russian cyber espionage group which has been active since at least January 2010. Like APT28, it initially confined itself to spying campaigns, focusing on governments, the military, and think tanks in the U.S. and Europe. It later became involved in more subversive operations and was implicated (along with APT28) in disruptive attacks prior to the 2016 U.S. presidential election. How does APT29 infiltrate targets? APT29 usually relies on spear-phishing emails to gain access to targeted organizations’ networks. During the 2016 U.S. presidential election attacks, APT29 sent spear-phishing emails to over 1,000 targeted individuals, including some U.S. government personnel. These emails contained malicious links which, if clicked, would lead to malware being installed on the target’s computer. This allowed APT29 to compromise a political party’s systems and steal emails from several accounts on the network. What tools does APT29 use? Symantec has seen APT29 use a number of custom malware tools, including: Trojan.Cozer Trojan.Seaduke Trojan.Dionisduke Backdoor.Netduke Trojan.Powerduke Backdoor.Miniduke Has Symantec previously published research on APT29? Yes, in July 2015 we published a blog: “Forkmeiamfamous”: Seaduke, latest weapon in the Duke armory How likely are we to see a repeat of these tactics during the 2018 midterm U.S. elections? Given the impact the 2016 attacks had, there is a strong likelihood that these tactics may be used again in a bid to sow discord and confusion among voters. How has the link between APT28, APT29, and Russia been established? The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) have concluded that both groups are linked to the Russian government. Symantec has no evidence that conflicts with this conclusion. What is the difference between APT28 and APT29? The groups are believed to be linked to different Russian agencies. Special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation has indicted 12 alleged members of Russia’s military intelligence agency (known as GRU) for activity relating to the APT28 attacks. About the Author Symantec Security Response Security Response Team Symantec's Security Response organization develops and deploys new security content to Symantec customers. Our team of global threat analysts operate 24x7 to track developments on the threat landscape and protect Symantec customers. Want to comment on this post? We encourage you to share your thoughts on your favorite social platform. Twitter LinkedIn Facebook
 The sophisticated threat actor COZY BEAR was initially identified in 2014. This actor has many other names in the information security community, including APT-29, Office Monkeys, CozyCar, and CozyDuke. Unlike many of the other nation-state actors that CrowdStrike monitors, COZY BEAR tends to cast a wide net, sending out thousands of phishing emails to a broad set of targets. This is notable, as most nation-state attackers tracked by CrowdStrike Falcon Intelligence prefer to conduct more focused operations against smaller sets of targets. COZY BEAR is nothing if not flexible, changing tool sets frequently. The actor’s implants have included those designated as SeaDaddy, MiniDionis, and AdobeARM RAT. In terms of post-exploitation operations, COZY BEAR is aggressive, using the latest components of the target operating system to hide from antivirus and host-based security tools. For more information on COZY BEAR, see CrowdStrike blog post Bears in the Midst. To learn more about using threat intelligence to defend your enterprise, protect your endpoints and proactively hunt sophisticated threat actors, visit the CrowdStrike Falcon Intelligence page. To get full access to CrowdStrike’s next-gen antivirus solution for 15 days visit the Falcon Prevent free trial page.
 Mandiant has observed Russian nation-state attackers APT29 employing domain fronting techniques for stealthy backdoor access to victim environments for at least two years. There has been considerable discussion about domain fronting following the release of a paper detailing these techniques . Domain fronting provides outbound network connections that are indistinguishable from legitimate requests for popular websites. APT29 has used The Onion Router (TOR) and the TOR domain fronting plugin meek to create a hidden, encrypted network tunnel that appeared to connect to Google services over TLS. This tunnel provided the attacker remote access to the host system using the Terminal Services (TS), NetBIOS, and Server Message Block (SMB) services, while appearing to be traffic to legitimate websites. The attackers also leveraged a common Windows exploit to access a privileged command shell without authenticating. We first discussed APT29’s use of these techniques as part of our “No Easy Breach” talk at DerbyCon 6.0. For additional details on how we first identified this backdoor, and the epic investigation it was part of, see the slides and presentation . Domain Fronting Overview The Onion Router (TOR) is a network of proxy nodes that attempts to provide anonymity to users accessing the Internet. TOR transfers internet traffic through a series of proxy points on the Internet, with each node knowing only the previous and next node in the path. This proxy network, combined with pervasive encryption, makes tracking the source of TOR Internet activity extremely difficult. A TOR client can also use the TOR network to host services that are not accessible from the open Internet. These services are commonly used to host “dark web” sites such as the defunct Silk Road. Typically network analysts can identify normal TOR traffic through signature analysis or the identification of communication with TOR infrastructure. Meek is a publicly available obfuscation plugin for TOR and an implementation of the domain fronting technique. To hide TOR traffic, meek takes advantage of the way that Google and other Internet content delivery networks (CDNs) route traffic. CDNs often route traffic from IP addresses associated with one service to servers associated with another service hosted on the same network. By hosting a meek reflection server in one of these CDNs, meek can hide TOR traffic in legitimate HTTPS connections to well-known services. Meek obfuscates traffic in several stages. First, it encodes TOR traffic into HTTP specifying the host name of the reflection server (for example, the default server meek-reflect.appspot.com). It then wraps that HTTP traffic in a legitimate TLS connection to a server hosted in the same CDN cloud as the reflection server (in this example, Google). When the CDN server receives the connection, it decrypts the TLS traffic, identifies the hostname specified in the HTTP header and redirects the traffic to the reflection server. The reflection server then reconstructs the original TOR traffic from the HTTP stream and sends the traffic to the TOR network, which routes it to its destination. This process creates an outbound network connection that appears to contain normal HTTPS POST requests for google.com on a Google-owned IP address, while discretely passing the traffic through the reflection server to the TOR network. Meek can also use the TLS service and cipher suites used by Firefox to further obfuscate traffic. Differentiating this traffic from legitimate connections is extremely difficult, and encryption of both on the initial TLS connection and the TOR traffic makes meaningful analysis of the traffic impossible. Note: Google suspended the reflection server meek-reflect.appspot.com, but other servers, in the Google cloud or other supported CDNs, can fulfill the same function. Figure 1 displays the traffic flow when using meek. Figure 1: Meek traffic flow Backdoor Overview Mandiant discovered that APT29 enabled a TOR hidden service that forwarded traffic from the TOR client to local ports 139, 445 and 3389 (NetBIOS, SMB and TS, respectively). This provided the attackers full remote access to the system from outside of the local network using the hidden TOR (.onion) address of the system. The attackers created the following files and directories during the installation and execution of the backdoor: C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\googleService.exe C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\GoogleUpdate.exe C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\core C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\data C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\data\00 C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\data\00\hostname C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\data\00\private_key C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\debug.log C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\lock C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\cached-certs C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\cached-microdescs C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\cached-microdescs.new C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\cached-microdescs-consensus C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\state C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\start.ps1 C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\install.bat The file googleService.exe is the primary TOR executable, responsible for establishing and maintaining encrypted proxy connections. GoogleUpdate.exe is the meek-client plugin, which obfuscates the TOR connection. These files are publicly available and have the following hashes: Filename SHA256 googleService.exe fe744a5b2d07de396a8b3fe97155fc64e350b76d88db36c619cd941279987dc5 GoogleUpdate.exe 2f39dee2ee608e39917cc022d9aae399959e967a2dd70d83b81785a98bd9ed36 The file C:\Program Files (x86)\Google\core contains configuration information for the TOR service googleService.exe . The service was configured to: Communicate on ports 1, 80 and 443 Bridge traffic using the meek plugin to https://meek-reflect.appspot.com and obfuscate HTTPS and DNS requests to appear destined for www.google.com Forward traffic from ports 62304, 62305 and 62306 to ports 3389, 139 and 445, respectively Figure 2 displays the contents of the TOR configuration file core. Figure 2: Contents of TOR configuration file “C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\core” The C:\Program Files (x86)\Google\data\00\hostname ” file contained a single line with the TOR hostname for the system. This hostname was a pseudorandomly-generated 16 character alpha-numeric name, with the top-level domain (TLD) .onion . The C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\data\00\private_key file contained the TOR client RSA private key. Figure 3 displays the redacted contents of a sample private_key file. Figure 3: Redacted contents of sample private_key The attackers used the scripts start.ps1 and install.bat to install the TOR service. After installation, the attackers deleted these scripts from the system. Additional files in the directory C:\Program Files(x86)\Google contained cached data and logs from the operation of TOR. Additional information on increasing visibility into PowerShell activity through enhanced logging is available here . Installation and Persistence The attacker executed the PowerShell script C:\Program Files(x86)\Google\start.ps1 to install the TOR services and implement the “Sticky Keys” exploit. This script was deleted after execution, and was not recovered. By replacing the “Sticky Keys” binary, C:\Windows\System32\sethc.exe , with the Windows Command Processor cmd.exe , the attackers then accessed a privileged Windows console session without authenticating to the system. “Sticky Keys” is an accessibility feature that allows users to activate Windows modifier keys without pressing more than one key at a time. Pressing the shift key five times activates “Sticky Keys” and executes sethc.exe , which, when replaced with cmd.exe , opens a System-level command shell. From this shell, the attackers can execute arbitrary Windows commands, including adding or modifying accounts on the system, even from the logon screen (pre-authentication). By tunneling RDP traffic to the system, the attackers could gain both persistent access and privilege escalation using this simple and well-known exploit. The installation script start.ps1 created a Windows service named Google Update to maintain persistence after a system reboot. Table 1 contains registry details for the “Google Update” service. Table 1: Registry details for the TOR Google Update Windows service The script also modified the Terminal Server registry values fSingleSessionPerUser to allow multiple simultaneous Windows sessions using the same account, and fDenyTSConnections to allow Terminal Services connections. Table 2 shows the modified values for these registry keys. Table 2: Registry modifications performed by start.ps1 Conclusion APT29 adopted domain fronting long before these techniques were widely known. By employing a publicly available implementation, they were able to hide their network traffic, with minimal research or development, and with tools that are difficult to attribute. Detecting this activity on the network requires visibility into TLS connections and effective network signatures. However, when dealing with advanced threat groups who rapidly develop capabilities and invest in hiding network traffic, effective endpoint visibility is vital. Monitoring for potentially interesting events and attacker methodologies, like lateral movement and new persistence creation, can allow defenders to identify these stealthy methodologies.
 Uncovering a Malware Backdoor that Uses Twitter It hides in network communications, in all the noise—designed so that defenders can neither detect nor characterize its activity. But its purpose is transparent: to use Twitter, GitHub, and cloud storage services to relay commands and extract data from compromised networks. Download the report and read about the recently discovered HAMMERTOSS, a malware backdoor created by the Russian advanced persistent threat (APT) group APT29. Learn: How HAMMERTOSS works—the five stages, from looking for a Twitter handle to executing commands, including uploading victim’s data to cloud storage services Who APT29 is—their history, targets and methodology Why it’s difficult to detect HAMMERTOSS Download the report now.
 Mandiant has observed APT29 using a stealthy backdoor that we call POSHSPY. POSHSPY leverages two of the tools the group frequently uses: PowerShell and Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI). In the investigations Mandiant has conducted, it appeared that APT29 deployed POSHSPY as a secondary backdoor for use if they lost access to their primary backdoors. POSHSPY makes the most of using built-in Windows features – so-called “living off the land” – to make an especially stealthy backdoor. POSHSPY's use of WMI to both store and persist the backdoor code makes it nearly invisible to anyone not familiar with the intricacies of WMI. Its use of a PowerShell payload means that only legitimate system processes are utilized and that the malicious code execution can only be identified through enhanced logging or in memory. The backdoor's infrequent beaconing, traffic obfuscation, extensive encryption and use of geographically local, legitimate websites for command and control (C2) make identification of its network traffic difficult. Every aspect of POSHSPY is efficient and covert. Mandiant initially identified an early variant of the POSHSPY backdoor deployed as PowerShell scripts during an incident response engagement in 2015. Later in that same engagement, the attacker updated the deployment of the backdoor to use WMI for storage and persistence. Mandiant has since identified POSHSPY in several other environments compromised by APT29 over the past two years. We first discussed APT29’s use of this backdoor as part of our “No Easy Breach” talk. For additional details on how we first identified this backdoor, and the epic investigation it was part of, see the slides and presentation . Windows Management Instrumentation WMI is an administrative framework that is built into every version of Windows since 2000. WMI provides many administrative capabilities on local and remote systems, including querying system information, starting and stopping processes, and setting conditional triggers. WMI can be accessed using a variety of tools, including the Windows WMI Command-line (wmic.exe), or through APIs accessible to programming and scripting languages such as PowerShell. Windows system WMI data is stored in the WMI common information model (CIM) repository, which consists of several files in the System32\wbem\Repository directory. WMI classes are the primary structure within WMI. WMI classes can contain methods (code) and properties (data). Users with sufficient system-level privileges can define custom classes or extend the functionality of the many default classes. WMI permanent event subscriptions can be used to trigger actions when specified conditions are met. Attackers often use this functionality to persist the execution of backdoors at system start up. Subscriptions consist of three core WMI classes: a Filter, a Consumer, and a FilterToConsumerBinding. WMI Consumers specify an action to be performed, including executing a command, running a script, adding an entry to a log, or sending an email. WMI Filters define conditions that will trigger a Consumer, including system startup, the execution of a program, the passing of a specified time and many others. A FilterToConsumerBinding associates Consumers to Filters. Creating a WMI permanent event subscription requires administrative privileges on a system. We have observed APT29 use WMI to persist a backdoor and also store the PowerShell backdoor code. To store the code, APT29 created a new WMI class and added a text property to it in order to store a string value. APT29 wrote the encrypted and base64-encoded PowerShell backdoor code into that property. APT29 then created a WMI event subscription in order to execute the backdoor. The subscription was configured to run a PowerShell command that read, decrypted, and executed the backdoor code directly from the new WMI property. This allowed them to install a persistent backdoor without leaving any artifacts on the system’s hard drive, outside of the WMI repository. This “fileless” backdoor methodology made the identification of the backdoor much more difficult using standard host analysis techniques. POSHSPY WMI Component The WMI component of the POSHSPY backdoor leverages a Filter to execute the PowerShell component of the backdoor on a regular basis. In one instance, APT29 created a Filter named BfeOnServiceStartTypeChange (Figure 1), which they configured to execute every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 11:33 am local time. Figure 1: “BfeOnServiceStartTypeChange” WMI Query Language (WQL) filter condition The BfeOnServiceStartTypeChange Filter was bound to the CommandLineEventConsumer WindowsParentalControlsMigration . The WindowsParentalControlsMigration consumer was configured to silently execute a base64-encoded PowerShell command. Upon execution, this command extracted, decrypted, and executed the PowerShell backdoor payload stored in the HiveUploadTask text property of the RacTask class. The PowerShell command contained the payload storage location and encryption keys. Figure 2 displays the command, called the “CommandLineTemplate”, executed by the WindowsParentalControlsMigration consumer. Figure 2: WindowsParentalControlsMigration CommandLineTemplate Figure 3 contains the decoded PowerShell command from the “CommandLineTemplate.” Figure 3: Decoded CommandLineTemplate PowerShell code POSHSPY PowerShell Component The full code for a POSHSPY sample is available here . The POSHSPY backdoor is designed to download and execute additional PowerShell code and Windows binaries. The backdoor contains several notable capabilities, including: 1. Downloading and executing PowerShell code as an EncodedCommand 2. Writing executables to a randomly-selected directory under Program Files , and naming the EXE to match the chosen directory name, or, if that fails, writing the executable to a system-generated temporary file name, using the EXE extension 3. Modifying the Standard Information timestamps (created, modified, accessed) of every downloaded executable to match a randomly selected file from the System32 directory that was created prior to 2013 4. Encrypting communications using AES and RSA public key cryptography 5. Deriving C2 URLs from a Domain Generation Algorithm (DGA) using lists of domain names, subdomains, top-level domains (TLDs), Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs), file names, and file extensions 6. Using a custom User Agent string or the system's User Agent string derived from urlmon.dll 7. Using either custom cookie names and values or randomly-generated cookie names and values for each network connection 8. Uploading data in 2048-byte chunks 9. Appending a file signature header to all encrypted data, prior to upload or download, by randomly selecting from the file types: ICO GIF JPG PNG MP3 BMP The sample in this example used 11 legitimate domains owned by an organization located near the victim. When combined with the other options in the DGA, 550 unique C2 URLs could be generated. Infrequent beaconing, use of DGA and compromised infrastructure for C2, and appended file headers used to bypass content inspection made this backdoor difficult to identify using typical network monitoring techniques. Conclusion POSHSPY is an excellent example of the skill and craftiness of APT29. By “living off the land” they were able to make an extremely discrete backdoor that they can deploy alongside their more conventional and noisier backdoor families, in order to help ensure persistence even after remediation. As stealthy as POSHSPY can be, it comes to light quickly if you know where to look. Enabling and monitoring enhanced PowerShell logging can capture malicious code as it executes and legitimate WMI persistence is so rare that malicious persistence quickly stands out when enumerating it across an environment. This is one of several sneaky backdoor families that we have identified, including an off-the-shelf domain fronting backdoor and HAMMERTOSS . When responding to an APT29 breach, it is vital to increase visibility, fully scope the incident before responding and thoroughly analyze accessed systems that don't contain known malware. Additional Reading This PowerShell logging blog post contains more information on improving PowerShell visibility in your environment. This excellent whitepaper by William Ballenthin, Matt Graeber and Claudiu Teodorescu contains additional information on WMI offense, defense and forensics. This presentation by Christopher Glyer and Devon Kerr contains additional information on attacker use of WMI in past Mandiant investigations. The FireEye FLARE team released a WMI repository-parsing tool that allows investigators to extract embedded data from the WMI repository and identify WMI persistence.
 Sofacy, also known as APT28, Fancy Bear, and Tsar Team, is a highly active and prolific APT . From their high volume 0day deployment to their innovative and broad malware set, Sofacy is one of the top groups that we monitor, report, and protect against. 2017 was not any different in this regard. Our private reports subscription customers receive a steady stream of YARA , IOC, and reports on Sofacy, our most reported APT for the year. This high level of cyber-espionage activity goes back years. In 2011-2012, the group used a relatively tiny implant (known as “Sofacy” or SOURFACE) as their first stage malware, which at the time had similarities with the old Miniduke implants. This made us believe the two groups were connected, although it looks they split ways at a certain point, with the original Miniduke group switching to the CosmicDuke implant in 2014. The division in malware was consistent and definitive at that point. In 2013, the Sofacy group expanded their arsenal and added more backdoors and tools, including CORESHELL, SPLM (aka Xagent, aka CHOPSTICK), JHUHUGIT (which is built with code from the Carberp sources), AZZY (aka ADVSTORESHELL, NETUI, EVILTOSS, and spans across 4-5 generations) and a few others. We’ve seen quite a few versions of these implants, which were relatively widespread at some point or still are. In 2015 we noticed another wave of attacks which took advantage of a new release of the AZZY implant, largely undetected by antivirus products. The new wave of attacks included a new generation of USB stealers deployed by Sofacy, with initial versions dating to February 2015. It appeared to be geared exclusively towards high profile targets. Sofacy’s reported presence in the DNC network alongside APT29 brought possibly the highest level of public attention to the group’s activities in 2016, especially when data from the compromise was leaked and “weaponized”. And later 2016, their focus turned towards the Olympics’ and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS), when individuals and servers in these organizations were phished and compromised. In a similar vein with past CyberBerkut activity, attackers hid behind anonymous activist groups like “anonpoland”, and data from victimized organizations were similarly leaked and “weaponized”. This write-up will survey notables in the past year of 2017 Sofacy activity, including their targeting, technology, and notes on their infrastructure. No one research group has 100% global visibility, and our collected data is presented accordingly. Here, external APT28 reports on 2017 Darkhotel -style activity in Europe and Dealer’s Choice spearphishing are of interest. From where we sit, 2017 Sofacy activity starts with a heavy focus on NATO and Ukrainian partners, coinciding with lighter interest in Central Asian targets, and finishing the second half of the year with a heavy focus on Central Asian targets and some shift further East. Dealer’s Choice The beginning of 2017 began with a slow cleanup following the Dealer’s Choice campaign, with technical characteristics documented by our colleagues at Palo Alto in several stages at the end of 2016. The group spearphished targets in several waves with Flash exploits leading to their carberp based JHUHUGIT downloaders and further stages of malware. It seems that many folks did not log in and pull down their emails until Jan 2017 to retrieve the Dealer’s Choice spearphish. Throughout these waves, we observed that the targets provided connection, even tangential, to Ukraine and NATO military and diplomatic interests. In multiple cases, Sofacy spoofs the identity of a target, and emails a spearphish to other targets of interest. Often these are military or military-technology and manufacturing related, and here, the DealersChoice spearphish is again NATO related: The global reach that coincided with this focus on NATO and the Ukraine couldn’t be overstated. Our KSN data showed spearphishing targets geolocated across the globe into 2017. AM, AZ, FR, DE, IQ, IT, KG, MA, CH, UA, US, VN DealersChoice emails, like the one above, that we were able to recover from third party sources provided additional targeting insight, and confirmed some of the targeting within our KSN data: TR, PL, BA, AZ, KR, LV, GE, LV, AU, SE, BE 0day Deployment(s) Sofacy kicked off the year deploying two 0day in a spearphish document, both a Microsoft Office encapsulated postscript type confusion exploit (abusing CVE-2017-0262 ) and an escalation of privilege use-after-free exploit (abusing CVE-2017-0263 ). The group attempted to deploy this spearphish attachment to push a small 30kb backdoor known as GAMEFISH to targets in Europe at the beginning of 2017. They took advantage of the Syrian military conflict for thematic content and file naming “Trump’s_Attack_on_Syria_English.docx”. Again, this deployment was likely a part of their focus on NATO targets. Light SPLM deployment in Central Asia and Consistent Infrastructure Meanwhile in early-to-mid 2017, SPLM/CHOPSTICK/XAgent detections in Central Asia provided a glimpse into ongoing focus on ex-Soviet republics in Central Asia. These particular detections are interesting because they indicate an attempted selective 2nd stage deployment of a backdoor maintaining filestealer, keylogger, and remoteshell functionality to a system of interest. As the latest revision of the backdoor, portions of SPLM didn’t match previous reports on SPLM/XAgent while other similarities were maintained. SPLM 64-bit modules already appeared to be at version 4 of the software by May of the year. Targeting profiles included defense related commercial and military organizations, and telecommunications. Targeting included TR, KZ, AM, KG, JO, UK, UZ Heavy Zebrocy deployments Since mid-November 2015, the threat actor referred to as “Sofacy” or “APT28” has been utilizing a unique payload and delivery mechanism written in Delphi and AutoIT. We collectively refer to this package and related activity as “Zebrocy” and had written a few reports on its usage and development by June 2017 – Sofacy developers modified and redeployed incremented versions of the malware. The Zebrocy chain follows a pattern: spearphish attachment -> compiled Autoit script (downloader) -> Zebrocy payload. In some deployments, we observed Sofacy actively developing and deploying a new package to a much smaller, specific subset of targets within the broader set. Targeting profiles, spearphish filenames, and lures carry thematic content related to visa applications and scanned images, border control administration, and various administrative notes. Targeting appears to be widely spread across the Middle East, Europe, and Asia: Business accounting practices and standards Science and engineering centers Industrial and hydrochemical engineering and standards/certification Ministry of foreign affairs Embassies and consulates National security and intelligence agencies Press services Translation services NGO – family and social service Ministry of energy and industry We identified new MSIL components deployed by Zebrocy. While recent Zebrocy versioning was 7.1, some of the related Zebrocy modules that drop file-stealing MSIL modules we call Covfacy were v7.0. The components were an unexpected inclusion in this particular toolset. For example, one sent out to a handful of countries identifies network drives when they are added to target systems, and then RC4-like-encrypts and writes certain file metadata and contents to a local path for later exfiltration. The stealer searches for files 60mb and less with these extensions: .doc .docx .xls .xlsx .ppt .pptx .exe .zip .rar At execution, it installs an application-defined Windows hook. The hook gets windows messages indicating when a network drive has been attached. Upon adding a network drive, the hook calls its “RecordToFile” file stealer method. Zebrocy spearphishing targets: AF, AM, AU, AZ, BD, BE, CN, DE, ES, FI, GE, IL, IN, JO, KW, KG, KZ, LB, LT, MN, MY, NL, OM, PK, PO, SA, ZA, SK, SE, CH, TJ, TM, TR, UA, UAE, UK, US, UZ SPLM deployment in Central Asia SPLM/CHOPSTICK components deployed throughout 2017 were native 64-bit modular C++ Windows COM backdoors supporting http over fully encrypted TLSv1 and TLSv1.2 communications, mostly deployed in the second half of 2017 by Sofacy. Earlier SPLM activity deployed 32-bit modules over unencrypted http (and sometimes smtp) sessions. In 2016 we saw fully functional, very large SPLM/X-Agent modules supporting OS X. The executable module continues to be part of a framework supporting various internal and external components communicating over internal and external channels, maintaining slightly morphed encryption and functionality per deployment. Sofacy selectively used SPLM/CHOPSTICK modules as second stage implants to high interest targets for years now. In a change from previous compilations, the module was structured and used to inject remote shell, keylogger, and filesystem add-ons into processes running on victim systems and maintaining functionality that was originally present within the main module. The newer SPLM modules are deployed mostly to Central Asian based targets that may have a tie to NATO in some form. These targets include foreign affairs government organizations both localized and abroad, and defense organizations’ presence localized, located in Europe and also located in Afghanistan. One outlier SPLM target profile within our visibility includes an audit and consulting firm in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Minor changes and updates to the code were released with these deployments, including a new mutex format and the exclusive use of encrypted HTTP communications over TLS. The compiled code itself already is altered per deployment in multiple subtle ways, in order to stymie identification and automated analysis and accommodate targeted environments. Strings (c2 domains and functionality, error messages, etc) are custom encrypted per deployment. Targets: TR, KZ, BA, TM, AF, DE, LT, NL SPLM/CHOPSTICK/XAgent Modularity and Infrastructure This subset of SPLM/CHOPSTICK activity leads into several small surprises that take us into 2018, to be discussed in further detail at SAS 2018. The group demonstrates malleability and innovation in maintaining and producing familiar SPLM functionality, but the pragmatic and systematic approach towards producing undetected or difficult-to-detect malware continues. Changes in the second stage SPLM backdoor are refined, making the code reliably modular. Infrastructure Notes Sofacy set up and maintained multiple servers and c2 for varying durations, registering fairly recognizable domains with privacy services, registrars that accept bitcoin, fake phone numbers, phony individual names, and 1 to 1 email address to domain registration relationships. Some of this activity and patterns were publicly disclosed, so we expect to see more change in their process in 2018. Also, throughout the year and in previous years, researchers began to comment publicly on Sofacy’s fairly consistent infrastructure setup. As always, attackers make mistakes and give away hints about what providers and registrars they prefer. It’s interesting to note that this version of SPLM implements communications that are fully encrypted over HTTPS. As an example, we might see extraneous data in their SSL/TLS certificates that give away information about their provider or resources. Leading up to summer 2017, infrastructure mostly was created with PDR and Internet Domain Service BS Corp, and their resellers. Hosting mostly was provided at Fast Serv Inc and resellers, in all likelihood related to bitcoin payment processing. Accordingly, the server side certificates appear to be generated locally on VPS hosts that exclusively are paid for at providers with bitcoin merchant processing. One certificate was generated locally on what appeared to be a HP-UX box, and another was generated on “8569985.securefastserver[.]com” with an email address “root@8569985.securefastserver[.]com”, as seen here for their nethostnet[.]com domain. This certificate configuration is ignored by the malware. In addition to other ip data, this data point suggested that Qhoster at https://www.qhoster[.]com was a VPS hosting reseller of choice at the time. It should be noted that the reseller accepted Alfa Click, PayPal, Payza, Neteller, Skrill, WebMoney, Perfect Money, Bitcoin, Litecoin, SolidTrust Pay, CashU, Ukash, OKPAY, EgoPay, paysafecard, Alipay, MG, Western Union, SOFORT Banking, QIWI, Bank transfer for payment. Conclusion Sofacy, one of the most active APT we monitor, continues to spearphish their way into targets, reportedly widely phishes for credentials, and infrequently participates in server side activity (including host compromise with BeEF deployment , for example). KSN visibility and detections suggests a shift from their early 2017 high volume NATO spearphish targeting towards the middle east and Central Asia, and finally moving their focus further east into late 2017. Their operational security is good. Their campaigns appear to have broken out into subsets of activity and malware involving GAMEFISH, Zebrocy, and SPLM, to name a few. Their evolving and modified SPLM/CHOPSTICK/XAgent code is a long-standing part of Sofacy activity, however much of it is changing. We’ll cover more recent 2018 change in their targeting and the malware itself at SAS 2018 . With a group like Sofacy, once their attention is detected on a network, it is important to review logins and unusual administrator access on systems, thoroughly scan and sandbox incoming attachments, and maintain two factor authentication for services like email and vpn access. In order to identify their presence, not only can you gain valuable insight into their targeting from intelligence reports and gain powerful means of detections with hunting tools like YARA, but out-of-band processing with a solution like KATA is important. Technical Appendix Related md5 8f9f697aa6697acee70336f66f295837 1a4b9a6b321da199aa6d10180e889313 842454b48f5f800029946b1555fba7fc d4a5d44184333442f5015699c2b8af28 1421419d1be31f1f9ea60e8ed87277db b1d1a2c64474d2f6e7a5db71ccbafa31 953c7321c4959655fdd53302550ce02d 57601d717fcf358220340675f8d63c8a 02b79c468c38c4312429a499fa4f6c81 85cd38f9e2c9397a18013a8921841a04 f8e92d8b5488ea76c40601c8f1a08790 66b4fb539806ce27be184b6735584339 e8e1fcf757fe06be13bead43eaa1338c 953c7321c4959655fdd53302550ce02d aa2aac4606405d61c7e53140d35d7671 85cd38f9e2c9397a18013a8921841a04 57601d717fcf358220340675f8d63c8a 16e1ca26bc66e30bfa52f8a08846613d f8e92d8b5488ea76c40601c8f1a08790 b137c809e3bf11f2f5d867a6f4215f95 237e6dcbc6af50ef5f5211818522c463 88009adca35560810ec220544e4fb6aa 2163a33330ae5786d3e984db09b2d9d2 02b79c468c38c4312429a499fa4f6c81 842454b48f5f800029946b1555fba7fc d4a5d44184333442f5015699c2b8af28 b88633376fbb144971dcb503f72fd192 8f9f697aa6697acee70336f66f295837 b6f77273cbde76896a36e32b0c0540e1 1a4b9a6b321da199aa6d10180e889313 1421419d1be31f1f9ea60e8ed87277db 1a4b9a6b321da199aa6d10180e889313 9b10685b774a783eabfecdb6119a8aa3 aa34fb2e5849bff4144a1c98a8158970 aced5525ba0d4f44ffd01c4db2730a34 b1d1a2c64474d2f6e7a5db71ccbafa31 b924ff83d9120d934bb49a7a2e3c4292 cdb58c2999eeda58a9d0c70f910d1195 d4a5d44184333442f5015699c2b8af28 d6f2bf2066e053e58fe8bcd39cb2e9ad 34dc9a69f33ba93e631cd5048d9f2624 1c6f8eba504f2f429abf362626545c79 139c9ac0776804714ebe8b8d35a04641 e228cd74103dc069663bb87d4f22d7d5 bed5bc0a8aae2662ea5d2484f80c1760 8c3f5f1fff999bc783062dd50357be79 5882a8dd4446abd137c05d2451b85fea 296c956fe429cedd1b64b78e66797122 82f06d7157dd28a75f1fbb47728aea25 9a975e0ddd32c0deef1318c485358b20 529424eae07677834a770aaa431e6c54 4cafde8fa7d9e67194d4edd4f2adb92b f6b2ef4daf1b78802548d3e6d4de7ba7 ede5d82bb6775a9b1659dccb699fadcb 116d2fc1665ce7524826a624be0ded1c 20ff290b8393f006eaf4358f09f13e99 4b02dfdfd44df3c88b0ca8c2327843a4 c789ec7537e300411d523aef74407a5e 0b32e65caf653d77cab2a866ee2d9dbc 27faa10d1bec1a25f66e88645c695016 647edddf61954822ddb7ab3341f9a6c5 2f04b8eb993ca4a3d98607824a10acfb 9fe3a0fb3304d749aeed2c3e2e5787eb 62deab0e5d61d6bf9e0ba83d9e1d7e2b 86b607fe63c76b3d808f84969cb1a781 f62182cf0ab94b3c97b0261547dfc6cf 504182aaa5575bb38bf584839beb6d51 d79a21970cad03e22440ea66bd85931f Related domains nethostnet[.]com hostsvcnet[.]com etcrem[.]net movieultimate[.]com newfilmts[.]com fastdataexchange[.]org liveweatherview[.]com analyticsbar[.]org analyticstest[.]net lifeofmentalservice[.]com meteost[.]com righttopregnantpower[.]com kiteim[.]org adobe-flash-updates[.]org generalsecurityscan[.]com globalresearching[.]org lvueton[.]com audiwheel[.]com online-reggi[.]com fsportal[.]net netcorpscanprotect[.]com mvband[.]net mvtband[.]net viters[.]org treepastwillingmoment[.]com sendmevideo[.]org satellitedeluxpanorama[.]com ppcodecs[.]com encoder-info[.]tk wmdmediacodecs[.]com postlkwarn[.]com shcserv[.]com versiontask[.]com webcdelivery[.]com miropc[.]org securityprotectingcorp[.]com uniquecorpind[.]com appexsrv[.]net adobeupgradeflash[.]com
 APT29 Uses Stealthy Backdoor to Maintain Access to Targets Researchers at FireEye-owned Mandiant have conducted a detailed analysis of a stealthy backdoor used by the Russia-linked cyberespionage group APT29 to maintain access to targeted systems. Dubbed “POSHSPY,” the malware is believed to be a secondary backdoor used by the cyberspies in case they lose access to their primary backdoors. Mandiant first spotted POSHSPY in 2015 during an incident response engagement, and identified it on the networks of several organizations over the past two years. Similar to other pieces of malware used by APT29, POSHSPY leverages PowerShell and the Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) administrative framework. WMI can be used to obtain system information, start and stop processes, and configure conditional triggers. In the case of POSHSPY, WMI is used to run a PowerShell command that decrypts and executes the backdoor code directly from a WMI property, thus ensuring that no artifacts are left on the hard drive. The WMI component of POSHSPY executes the PowerShell component on every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 11:33 AM local time. Experts pointed out that the use of legitimate Windows tools and the other techniques employed in these attacks increase the backdoor’s chances of evading detection. “POSHSPY's use of WMI to both store and persist the backdoor code makes it nearly invisible to anyone not familiar with the intricacies of WMI. Its use of a PowerShell payload means that only legitimate system processes are utilized and that the malicious code execution can only be identified through enhanced logging or in memory,” explained Matthew Dunwoody, incident response consultant at Mandiant. “The backdoor's infrequent beaconing, traffic obfuscation, extensive encryption and use of geographically local, legitimate websites for command and control (C2) make identification of its network traffic difficult. Every aspect of POSHSPY is efficient and covert,” Dunwoody added. The malware allows attackers to download and execute additional PowerShell code and executable files. The threat communicates with command and control (C&C) servers located at URLs generated using a domain generation algorithm (DGA) that relies on lists of domain names, TLDs, subdomains, URIs, file names and file extensions. C&C communications are encrypted using AES and RSA public key cryptography. FireEye has not shared any information on which countries or what types of organizations have been targeted in attacks involving the POSHSPY backdoor. The APT29 group has put some effort into making its operations more difficult to detect. Earlier this month, FireEye detailed the threat actor’s use of a technique called “domain fronting” to disguise the malicious traffic generated by its tools. APT29 is also known as The Dukes, Cozy Bear and Cozy Duke. The group is believed to be behind the recent election-related attacks in the U.S. and a campaign targeting high-profile organizations in Norway. Related: Cyberspies Launch U.S. Attacks Hours After Trump Elected Related: U.S. Gov's "GRIZZLY STEPPE" Report Fails to Achieve Purpose (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
 APT29 Cyberspies Use Domain Fronting to Evade Detection The Russia-linked cyber espionage group known as APT29 has been using a technique called “domain fronting” in an effort to make it more difficult for targeted organizations to identify malicious traffic, FireEye reported on Monday. Domain fronting is a censorship bypassing technique that involves disguising traffic to make it look as if it’s going to a host allowed by the censor, such as Google, Amazon or CloudFlare. Open Whisper Systems recently implemented the technique to help Signal users in Egypt and the United Arab Emirates bypass government censorship. According to FireEye, the technique has been used for at least two years by the threat actor APT29, which is also known as The Dukes, Cozy Bear and Cozy Duke. The group is believed to be behind the recent election-related attacks in the U.S. and a campaign targeting high-profile organizations in Norway. APT29 has used the Tor anonymity network to communicate with infected machines, which could be considered suspicious by some defenders. In order to disguise Tor traffic as apparently legitimate traffic, the cyberspies used Meek, a Tor plugin that implements domain fronting and allows users to send traffic to Tor inside a harmless-looking HTTPS POST request to google.com. In its attacks, APT29 used a PowerShell script and a .bat file to install the Tor client and the Meek plugin on the targeted system. They leveraged an exploit involving the Sticky Keys accessibility feature, where they replaced the legitimate executable with the Windows Command Prompt (cmd.exe) file. This provides the attacker a shell that they can use to execute commands with SYSTEM-level privileges, including to add or modify accounts. The script that executes the Sticky Keys exploit also creates a Windows service named “Google Update” to ensure that the backdoor remains even after the system has been rebooted. “APT29 adopted domain fronting long before these techniques were widely known,” said FireEye’s Matthew Dunwoody. “By employing a publicly available implementation, they were able to hide their network traffic, with minimal research or development, and with tools that are difficult to attribute. Detecting this activity on the network requires visibility into TLS connections and effective network signatures.” Related: Cyberspies Launch U.S. Attacks Hours After Trump Elected Related: U.S. Gov's "GRIZZLY STEPPE" Report Fails to Achieve Purpose (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Data Protection
 Russian Hacker Tool Uses Legitimate Web Services to Hide Attacks: FireEye HAMMERTOSS Malware From Russian Hackers Uses Popular Web Services to Conceal Attacks A group of sophisticated hackers from Russia are using a malware tool that helps them hide Malicious activity within legitimate network traffic by leveraging common web services such as Twitter, GitHub and cloud storage providers, FireEye said Wednesday. The malicious backdoor, which FireEye has dubbed “HAMMERTOSS”, was first discovered by the security firm in early 2015 and is being used by a Russian APT group to relay commands and extract data from compromised targets. The threat actor group behind HAMMERTOSS is tracked by FireEye as APT29, a group that the company describes as “one of the most capable” threat groups they track. FireEye researchers explained that the malware communication process used by HAMMERTOSS could be broken down into several stages to explain how the tool operates, receives instructions, and extracts information from a victim’s network. “HAMMERTOSS combines all of the best practices of malware development,” Jordan Berry, a Threat Intelligence Analyst at FireEye, told SecurityWeek. The first stage leverages Twitter, and utilizes specific accounts that are created by a predictable algorithm and changed daily. “In the second stage, the malware looks for a tweet containing a URL and a hashtag,” Berry said. “The URL will direct the malware implant to download an image.” Stage-three downloads the image as directed by the tweet, which contains appended and encrypted data at the end of the file and has instructions for the malware. “While the image appears normal, it actually contains steganographic data. Steganography is the practice of concealing a message, image, or file within another message, image, or file,” FireEye’s report explained. Finally, the malware uses PowerShell to execute command on the compromised host and send that information to a cloud storage provider. “These techniques have been used by other threat groups in the past in the singular, but the whole operation in total is what is what’s really unique about HAMMERTOSS,” Jen Weedon, Threat Intelligence Manager at FireEye, told SecurityWeek. The APT29 attackers are suspected by FireEye to be a Russian APT group, and also believed to be connected to MiniDuke and OnionDuke attack campaigns. HAMMERTOSS isn’t being deployed by the attackers in a wide manner, Weedon said, adding that the malware is likely being used as a backup tool in the event its primary tools were discovered. “HAMMERTOSS seems to be only deployed against critical targets, so we think [the attackers] are only using it when other tools aren’t working, or if their operation has been disrupted in some way,” she said. “We speculate that APT29 may make modifications to HAMMERTOSS or abandon it altogether and develop a new tool if they discover incident responders or antivirus software is detecting it,” FireEye’s report concluded. "The group has demonstrated an understanding of network defenders’ countermeasures. During our investigations, APT29 continually deployed new versions of backdoors to fix bugs and add functions, as well as kept tabs on network defenders’ activities to counter attempts to clean the client’s system to maintain access to the victim environment." FireEye told SecurityWeek that it has been in touch with both Twitter and the cloud storage provider(s) used in relation to the few attacks campaigns they have witnessed. FireEye researchers would not disclose the cloud storage provider by name, only saying that it was a top three provider of cloud storage services. As of the time of publishing, an MD5 for HAMMERTOSS provided by FireEye was detected by just 4 of 56 anti-malware engines on VirusTotal. The full report (PDF) from FireEye is available online, and FireEye produced a short video (below) which explained the overall threat. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Malware
 Norway Accuses Russia of Cyberattack Oslo - Norway's foreign ministry, army and other institutions were targeted in a recent cyberattack by a group suspected of ties to Russian authorities, Norwegian intelligence -- which was among the targets -- said Friday. Known as APT 29, the group singled out by Oslo has already been accused of hacking interference in the US election last year. "Nine different email accounts were targeted in an attempt at what is called spear phishing, in other words malicious emails," Arne Christian Haugstoyl, an official with Norway's intelligence service PST, told television channel TV2. "It's difficult to know what the goal" of the operation was, he said, adding that Norway was alerted to the attack by an allied country. He described APT 29 as a group "with links to the Russian authorities". PST spokesman Martin Bernsen, quoted by daily Verdens Gang (VG), said there was "no reason to believe that classified information had been obtained in connection with the attack." In addition to the foreign ministry, the army and PST itself, the attack -- the date of which was not disclosed -- also targeted the Norwegian radiation protection agency, a school and the parliamentary group of the Labour party, the traditionally dominant political party in Norway but which is currently in opposition. Legislative elections are scheduled for September 11, though no link has been made to the vote. Norway, a NATO member, and its neighbor Russia normally enjoy good relations but ties have grown more tense in the wake of the Ukraine crisis. The Scandinavian country on Wednesday summoned the Russian ambassador to lodge a protest after Moscow refused visas to two senior lawmakers in a move Oslo denounced as "unjustifiable". Russia said the visa refusal was a reaction to Norway's participation in EU economic sanctions against it over the Ukraine crisis. Moscow was also angered by the recent deployment of some 300 US soldiers on Norwegian soil. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
 Google Warns Users of Recent State-sponsored Attacks Google Warns Journalists and Activists About Recent State-Sponsored Attacks Over the last few days, Google has delivered a batch of warnings about potential government-backed attacks against numerous journalists, academics and activists. Many of the recipients have announced their personal warnings on Twitter. There are some differences in the wording of some of the warnings, but Google has confirmed that the Twitter postings appear to be authentic. Google has been issuing such warnings since 2012. At first they were simple text alerts across the top of the recipients' Gmail page. In March of this year it started to use the larger more noticeable banners that are now appearing. The warnings do not indicate that an account has actually been compromised; only that Google researchers have seen indications of an attempt against the account. The warnings are also not timely. The attack indicators were likely noticed up to a month earlier. Google does not issue immediate warnings for fear that this will allow attackers to determine the method of discovery. This time lapse has led to certain assumptions that the attackers are likely to be the Russian actors, possibly APT28 or APT29, that were linked to attacks against the Democrats, supposedly to influence the election. (Last month, Russian hackers were also linked with targeting journalists investigating the MH17 crash.) This, however, has to be conjecture. Google does not publicly provide any evidence on the identity of the attackers -- and at least one target is a Hong-Kong-based Chinese activist (Joshua Wong Chi-fung). "Google has been secretive about the algorithms and criteria it uses to determine that a potential attack is state-sponsored," explains ESET senior research fellow David Harley; adding that such secrecy about proprietary algorithms is not unusual in the security industry. "The relationship with the APT29 targeted malware is speculative, but I can't say there isn't a connection. If an attack is based on code that is associated with known state-sponsored attacks, that could be another indicator, if you have that sort of information. Google isn't exactly known for a spirit of friendly cooperation with the security industry at large, but it certainly has security resources." There is, however, an element of hysteria about this current batch of warnings; as if users need to take different precautions against nation attacks than they do against everyday criminal attacks. Activists are more likely to be attacked for political reasons, and in some cases the consequences could be more dire -- but the defenses remain the same as those everybody should be using as a matter of course. "Journalists and professors already know what they should do - and if they don't, they can easily look it up. If they don't already follow best practices it's because they suffer from the fallacy that they aren't important enough to target," comments F-Secure's Sean Sullivan. It is certainly true that users receiving Google warnings should take immediate steps to confirm the integrity of their account: Google doesn't say the attack was successful, but nor does it say it failed. Caleb Chen, who works with Private Internet Access, points out that state-sponsored attacks may be more prevalent than is commonly thought. Google says only that it is likely to happen to less than 0.1% of its users. If there are a billion Gmail users, he suggests, those figures mean that up to a million may have seen state-sponsored probing. "As cyber-attacks continue to proliferate, often times across borders, expect reports of this type of probing to rise in the future." There is also an irony about warnings being attributed to foreign governments coming at the same time as the US and particularly the UK governments are increasing their own surveillance capabilities. Luis Corrons, technical director at PandaLabs insists there is a difference. "One thing is knowing that governments are harvesting loads of information from everyone, and another thing is an attack targeted at you, so they can compromise your computer and access (steal) all your information, sources, etc." Nevertheless, Chen reports a 30% spike in VPN sales from the UK in the week in which the IP Bill completed its course through parliament. While standard computer defenses are required to protect accounts, VPNs are now also required to protect communications -- especially those of activists of any persuasion. Account defenses obviously include strong passwords, 2FA where possible, reputable anti-virus, and an awareness of spear-phishing techniques; but Corrons offers one other piece of advice for journalists and activists: "Ideally have all your sensitive information in a different computer to the one you use for your emails, Internet, etc. Even better if this one is not connected to the Internet." (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Tracking & Law Enforcement
 Democracy at Risk from Poor Cybersecurity, Foreign Interference: Survey Survey Shows Distinct Voter Concern for Elections and Cybersecurity For more than a year, a single thread has dominated American news: foreign interference in US elections. It started in June 2016 in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election, when the Democratic National Committee (DNC) announced it had been hacked, and CrowdStrike accused Russia-based Cozy Bear (APT 29). Since then, the ramifications have rarely been out of the news. In October 2016 the U.S. government formally accused Russia of being behind the cyberattacks, and by December it became known that the CIA believed that "Russia intervened in the 2016 election to help Donald Trump win the presidency, rather than just to undermine confidence in the U.S. electoral system," The Washington Post reported. Since then, emphasis has switched to questioning the extent to which the Trump electoral team may or may not have known about or colluded with Russia in order to win the election; and whether it has or has not attempted to hinder or subvert subsequent law enforcement investigations. This has continued throughout 2017 until Wednesday this week when Rep. Brad Sherman (D-Calif.) formally introduced an article of impeachment against President Trump. The article of impeachment revolves around Trump's dismissal of FBI director James Comey allegedly to hinder the FBI's investigation into former National Security Advisor, General Michael Flynn. "In all of this, Donald John Trump has acted in a manner contrary to his trust as President and subversive of constitutional government, to the great prejudice of the cause of law and justice and to the manifest injury of the people of the United States." The huge and apparently unending ramifications of what started as just another cyber hack has caused cybersecurity firm Carbon Black to wonder what effect the cyber element has had on the American electorate. In June 2017, it conducted a nationwide survey (PDF) of 5,000 eligible U.S. voters, with particular reference to the upcoming midterm 2018 elections. In an associated blog post Carbon Black CEO Patrick Morley commented, "In perhaps the most startling revelation from the survey, 1 in 4 voters said they will consider not voting in upcoming elections over cybersecurity fears." In reality, this figure is easily covered by existing non-voters. Approximately only 57.9% of voters voted in the 2016 election, down less than 1% from the 58.6% that voted in 2012. So, while 25% of voters now say they may not vote in the midterms, this may have no effect on the actual voter turnout. A second area where the obvious conclusion may not be the accurate conclusion can be seen in 'voter perception on election influence'. According to the survey, "47% of voters said they believe the 2016 U.S. election was influenced by foreign entities." However, there could be a strong element of 'sore loser' in these figures. There is an aspect of tribalism in political affiliation -- some people will always vote for one particular party simply because of tribal affiliations. It is estimated that 48% of the electorate voted for Clinton (slightly more than the estimated 46% who voted Trump). There will be a strong incentive for the losing 48% to blame external causes on their loss -- and that could account for a large proportion of the 47% of responding voters who told Carbon Black that the result was influenced by foreign entities. Despite not being able to definitively relate current sentiment to a past or future threat against electoral democracy, the Carbon Black survey nevertheless shows distinct voter concern for elections and cybersecurity. Several of the survey queries are unambiguous, and the results can be taken at face value. Forty-five percent of voters believe that Russia poses the biggest cybersecurity risk to U.S. elections. Of the remaining 55%, "20% said the United States itself; 17% said North Korea; 11% said China; and 4% said Iran. (3% answered 'other.')" notes the report. Fifty-four percent of respondents "said the NSA leaks negatively impacted their trust in the U.S. election system to keep data safe;" and 44% "said they believe Russia will 'Be back' to influence future elections." Carbon Black concludes, "Cyberattacks against our elections seed doubt in democracy. The idea that even a single voter is willing to forfeit their vote in fear of a cyberattack is startling. The fact that 1 in 4 voters said they would be willing to do so speaks volumes about how deeply this doubt has penetrated. The alleged cyberattacks surrounding the 2016 elections were a clarion call that foreign entities are motivated to disrupt U.S. elections." More starkly, it adds, "Our democracy is at risk." Reality is probably not as extreme as this suggests. Political sentiment polling is very difficult, and Carbon Black has failed to eliminate 'other causes' in some of its questions. It might, for example, have been better to question 5,000 eligible voters that had actually voted in 2016 to get a more accurate picture of future voting intentions. Nevertheless, it is clear that there is strong voter concern over the future of elections and cybersecurity. The report makes five proposals designed "to help restore voter confidence." The first is to implement stronger cybersecurity protection for online registration systems and voter databases. The second is to limit (or discontinue) the use of electronic voting machines. The third is to create an auditable paper trail of votes in every state and precinct. The fourth is to prohibit online voting. The fifth is arguably the most important. In January 2017, then U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said, "I have determined that election infrastructure in this country should be designated as a subsector of the existing Government Facilities critical infrastructure sector. Given the vital role elections play in this country, it is clear that certain systems and assets of election infrastructure meet the definition of critical infrastructure, in fact and in law." In its fifth recommendation, Carbon Black now calls for the government to "commit the same urgency and resources to protecting its elections as it does for 'traditional' critical infrastructure." (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
 Cyberspies Launch U.S. Attacks Hours After Trump Elected Just hours after Donald Trump was elected president of the United States, researchers spotted a series of election-themed spear-phishing attacks aimed at think tanks and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the U.S. According to security firm Volexity, the attacks were launched by a Russia-linked threat group known as The Dukes, APT29, Cozy Bear and Cozy Duke. This and another actor believed to be sponsored by the Russian government, known as Pawn Storm and Fancy Bear, are suspected of launching attacks against the U.S. Democratic Party before the presidential election. Volexity said the Dukes sent out spear-phishing emails from Gmail accounts and compromised email accounts at Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS). The targeted users specialize in national security, international affairs, defense, public policy, and European and Asian studies. The Dukes has been targeting think tanks and NGOs in the United States since July 2015. However, in August 2016, the attackers started using a new piece of malware, which Volexity has dubbed “PowerDuke.” Unlike in previous attacks, which involved ZIP files containing malicious executables, the threat group delivered PowerDuke via emails carrying macro-enabled Word and Excel documents. The malicious documents were set up to install a downloader designed to fetch the PowerDuke backdoor. PowerDuke was also used in attacks launched in October and the ones observed on November 9, after the presidential election in the U.S. The first attack wave spotted after the elections involved fake eFax emails titled “The Shocking Truth About Election Rigging in the United States.” This wave was similar to earlier attacks where the APT actor used links pointing to ZIP files to deliver its backdoors. The second attack used the same eFax theme, but the emails were titled “Elections Outcome Could Be Revised [Facts of Elections Fraud]” and they delivered PowerDuke via macro-enabled documents. The third wave involved emails coming from a fas.harvard.edu address and messages apparently sent via the “Harvard PDF Mobile Service.” Titled “Why American Elections Are Flawed,” these emails also carried PowerDuke malware. The next two waves also leveraged Harvard FAS email addresses and they appeared to be forwarded from someone at the Clinton Foundation. The hacker calling himself Guccifer 2.0, which experts believe could be a persona used by Russian cyberspies, claimed in October that he had hacked the Clinton Foundation, but the organization refuted the claims. PowerDuke, which is deployed on a system only after anti-analysis checks are conducted, is capable of collecting information about the infected device, creating and terminating processes, downloading and uploading files, and obtaining text from the current window. The backdoor is hidden in innocent-looking PNG image files and some of its components are loaded only in memory. The U.S. has officially accused Russia of launching cyberattacks in an effort to interfere with the presidential election. Washington has vowed to respond and some officials even claim the U.S. has already hacked Russia’s critical infrastructure. Moscow has demanded an explanation for these reports. Related: Clinton - 'Grave' Concern Russia Interfering in U.S. Elections Related: Russia Hacks U.S. Networks 'All the Time', Says Spy Chief Related: State Election System Hacking Linked to Previous Attacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
 Early Toolsets Used by "Dukes" Attackers Suggest Russian Roots A new report published last week by F-Secure details the activities of the threat group behind the notorious Duke malware family, and points to the numerous clues suggesting that the actor is sponsored by the Russian government. Espionage operations involving threats such as CosmicDuke, MiniDuke, OnionDuke, CozyDuke (CozyBear/CozyCar), SeaDuke and CloudDuke have been analyzed by several security firms over the past years. Researchers believe the advanced persistent threat (APT) actor behind these threats, dubbed “the Dukes” and APT29, has been active since at least 2008. The group has mainly focused on Western government institutions, political think tanks, government contractors, and other organizations that possess information related to foreign and security policy decisions. Kaspersky Lab was the first security firm to report finding a malware of the Duke family when they revealed the existence of MiniDuke back in 2013. However, according to F-Secure, the first malware toolset used by the Dukes appears to be PinchDuke, which had been leveraged in various campaigns between November 2008 and the spring of 2010. PinchDuke, which consisted of loaders and a Trojan designed for data theft, was first used to target organizations in Georgia, Turkey, Uganda, and the United States. One of the clues suggesting that the threat was developed by Russian speakers is an error message written in Russian found in many of the PinchDuke samples. Another early version of Duke malware was GeminiDuke, for which experts discovered a sample compiled in January 2009. The GeminiDuke toolset was mainly designed for collecting information on the infected computer’s configuration. The timezone of the timestamps in the GeminiDuke samples analyzed by F-Secure was UTC+3 for samples compiled during winter and UTC+4 for samples compiled during summer. These time zones correspond to Moscow Standard Time (MST) before Russia decided to stop following Daylight Savings Time in 2011. The samples compiled after 2011 still follow the same pattern, but experts believe the malware developers simply failed to update the computer they were using to compile GeminiDuke. The most recent versions of Duke malware toolsets are SeaDuke, first used in October 2014, HammerDuke (HAMMERTOSS), first spotted in January 2015, and CloudDuke (MiniDionis/CloudLock), observed since June 2015. Ever since the first Duke malware samples were discovered, security firms attributed the threats to Russian-speaking actors. In January 2015, F-Secure stated that a Russian government agency was likely behind the attacks. FireEye reached the same conclusion in July when it published a detailed report on the HAMMERTOSS backdoor. F-Secure believes that the Duke attacks are Russian state-sponsored operations based on the attackers’ apparent motivations and objectives. First of all, experts say all targets possessed foreign and security policy information that could be highly valuable to Russia. Furthermore, at one point, CosmicDuke had been used to target individuals involved in trafficking illegal substances. Since such victims were spotted only in Russia, researchers believe the country’s law enforcement agencies might have used CosmicDuke as legal spyware. The times of day in which the malware was compiled and the presence of Russian artefacts in discovered samples simply point to actors located in Russia. However, the considerable financial support and the fact that they are very well organized suggests that the threat group is backed by a government, F-Secure said. “Based on the length of the Dukes’ activity, our estimate of the amount of resources invested in the operation and the fact that their activity only appears to be increasing, we believe the group to have significant and most critically, stable financial backing. The Dukes have consistently operated large-scale campaigns against high-profile targets while concurrently engaging in smaller, more targeted campaigns with apparent coordination and no evidence of unintentional overlap or operational clashes,” F-Secure explained in its report on the Dukes. “We therefore believe the Dukes to be a single, large, well-coordinated organization with clear separation of responsibilities and targets.” Despite the fact that their operations and tools have been exposed and analyzed by the IT security community, the Dukes don’t seem to be discouraged. “This apparent disregard for publicity suggests, in our opinion, that the benefactors of the Dukes is so powerful and so tightly connected to the group that the Dukes are able to operate with no apparent fear of repercussions on getting caught,” F-Secure said. “We believe the only benefactor with the power to offer such comprehensive protection would be the government of the nation from which the group operates. We therefore believe the Dukes to work either within or directly for a government, thus ruling out the possibility of a criminal gang or another third party.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
 U.S. Officially Accuses Russia of Election Hacks The U.S. government has officially accused Russia of being behind cyberattacks against American political organizations with the intent of interfering with the upcoming Presidential election in November. “The U.S. Intelligence Community (USIC) is confident that the Russian Government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from US persons and institutions, including from US political organizations,” a joint statement from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Office of the Director of National Intelligence said. “The recent disclosures of alleged hacked e-mails on sites like DCLeaks.com and WikiLeaks and by the Guccifer 2.0 online persona are consistent with the methods and motivations of Russian-directed efforts. These thefts and disclosures are intended to interfere with the US election process. Such activity is not new to Moscow—the Russians have used similar tactics and techniques across Europe and Eurasia, for example, to influence public opinion there,” the statement reads. "We believe, based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts, that only Russia's senior-most officials could have authorized these activities," the statement adds. “Some states have also recently seen scanning and probing of their election-related systems, which in most cases originated from servers operated by a Russian company. However, we are not now in a position to attribute this activity to the Russian Government,” U.S. officials said. The USIC and DHS say it would be “extremely difficult for someone, including a nation-state actor, to alter actual ballot counts or election results” by cyberattack or breach. Following the accusations, U.S. officals warned that it would act when it wants to protect national interests. "We will take action to protect our interests, including in cyberspace, and we will do so at a time and place of our choosing," a senior administration official told AFP. In response, Moscow called the allegations "rubbish." The decentralized nature of the U.S election system and the number of protections state and local election officials have in place will help make a successful attack challenging, the U.S. says. Early last month, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said that Russia hacks U.S. computer networks "all the time”. "The Russians hack our systems all the time, not just government but also corporate" and personal systems, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said, though he did not directly say whether Moscow was behind the DNC hack at the time. In August, researchers from two security firms uncovered evidence that they say linked a Russian threat actor to the cyberattack targeting the U.S. Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC). The DCCC was the second Democratic Party committee targeted by hackers over the summer. The first was the Democratic National Committee (DNC) which, according to several security companies, was targeted by two different Russia-linked advanced persistent threat (APT) actors: Cozy Bear, also known as Cozy Duke and APT29; and Fancy Bear, also known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Tsar Team, Strontium and Sednit. In July, SecureWorks reported that Fancy Bear had targeted thousands of Google accounts, including ones belonging to people working for or associated with the DNC and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. Related: U.S. Vows Response to Russian Hack at 'Time and Place of our Choosing' Related: Hacking of DNC Raises Fears of Cyber Attack on U.S. Election Related: US Election - Official Probe Slams Clinton's Private Email Use Related: 55 Million Exposed After Hack of Philippine Election Site (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
 North Korea's DDoS Attacks Analyzed Based on IPs Arbor Networks has used the IP addresses shared recently by United States authorities to analyze distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks attributed to the North Korean government. The security firm believes the data may not be as useful for organizations as the U.S. hopes. Earlier this month, the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) released a technical alert on behalf of the DHS and the FBI to warn organizations of North Korea’s Hidden Cobra activities, particularly its DDoS botnet infrastructure. Hidden Cobra, a threat actor tracked by others as Lazarus Group, is believed to be behind several high-profile attacks, including the ones targeting Sony Pictures, Bangladesh’s central bank, and banks in Poland. Links have also been found between the group and the recent WannaCry ransomware attacks. The US-CERT report focused on a DDoS tool dubbed DeltaCharlie. The organization has shared information on exploits, malware, IP addresses, file hashes, network signatures, and YARA rules associated with Hidden Cobra in an effort to help defenders detect the group’s attacks. Data from Arbor Networks’ ATLAS infrastructure showed that 24 of the 632 IP addresses provided by US authorities were involved in at least one DDoS attack over a 105-day period between March 1 and June 13, 2017. The company pointed out that its ATLAS infrastructure, which relies on data shared anonymously by nearly 400 globally distributed service providers, covers roughly one-third of Internet traffic, which means the actual number of IPs involved in attacks during this period is likely higher. According to Arbor, 16 IPs participated in more than one of the 164 attacks observed by the company. The largest attack peaked at 4.3 Gbps, which is more than enough to disrupt unprotected systems, and the longest attack lasted for 44 hours. While the largest concentration of IP addresses in the US-CERT report were in Russia, Arbor traced the highest percentage of IPs to Saudi Arabia (6 of 24) and the United Arab Emirates (5 of 24). The IPs monitored by Arbor were involved in DDoS attacks on most days, but there were some periods with no activity. The longest period with no activity started on April 5, shortly after North Korea launched a missile into the Sea of Japan. While it’s unclear if the two events are in any way related, experts noted that DDoS attacks are often timed with significant geopolitical events. Of the 164 DDoS attacks observed by researchers, nearly half were aimed at the United States, followed by the U.K., Australia, France, Saudi Arabia and Singapore. SecurityWeek has reached out to several other DDoS protection companies, but none of them could immediately provide any information on the Hidden Cobra attacks. Arbor said it conducted an analysis due to the fact that the US-CERT report, which the company has described as vague, was not clear on whether the IPs were bots or part of command and control (C&C) infrastructure, and it also failed to clarify if the IPs were “innocent” reflectors. Arbor’s analysis – based on the types of attacks observed – suggests that the report lists open reflectors abused by DeltaCharlie and not the actual bots. “This lack of context makes it difficult for responders to act. Security analysts would treat a list of command-and-control servers differently from a list of bots, and differently from a list of reflectors,” experts said. “Blindly loading such indicators into security systems could potentially cause more harm than good.” This is not the first time the cybersecurity community has criticized a joint report from the FBI and the DHS. The report released late last year on GRIZZLY STEPPE activity, better known as Cozy Bear (APT29) and Fancy Bear (APT28 and Pawn Storm), failed to demonstrate that Russia was behind the U.S. election hacks. Related: IoT Botnets Fuel DDoS Attacks Growth (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Risk Management Cloud Security Management & Strategy
 "Man-in-the-Cloud" Attacks Leverage Storage Services to Steal Data Popular cloud storage services such as Google Drive and Dropbox can be abused by malicious actors in what experts call “Man-in-the-Cloud” (MITC) attacks. Imperva’s latest Hacker Intelligence Initiative report explains in detail how attackers can easily abuse common file synchronization services for command and control (C&C) communications, endpoint hacking, remote access, and data exfiltration simply by reconfiguring them. One worrying aspect highlighted by Imperva in its report is that the attackers don’t even need to compromise targeted users’ credentials to gain access to their file synchronization accounts. Researchers have conducted tests on Microsoft OneDrive, Dropbox, Google Drive, and Box, cloud applications that are utilized by many organizations and their employees to make data available to multiple users and devices. These solutions work by connecting individual devices to a central hub in the cloud through the same user account. When a file is added to a device’s local repository, it is automatically synchronized with the hub and delivered to other devices. In an effort to make it easier to manage files, many popular applications don’t require users to enter their account credentials each time synchronization is performed. Instead, authentication to the cloud relies on a synchronization token that is usually stored in a file, a registry, or the Windows Credential Manager on the user’s machine. The problem, according to experts, is that even though this synchronization token is encrypted on the local device, it can be easily accessed and decrypted by an attacker. Malicious actors can synchronize their own devices with the victim’s account simply by copying this token to the right place on their own system. Imperva researcher have developed a tool that can manipulate synchronization tokens to allow an attacker to gain access to the victim’s account and implicitly their data. The tool can be delivered to the victim via phishing or drive-by download attacks, experts said. Once they have access to the victim’s account, attackers can steal the files placed in the sync folder. In addition to stealing information, attackers can also manipulate the files located in this folder (e.g. hold them for ransom by encrypting them, plant malicious code in existing files). Malicious actors that want to maintain access to the victim’s machine can also set up a backdoor. This can be useful for using the victim’s cloud storage as part of an operation’s C&C infrastructure. MITC attacks have several advantages. First of all, the synchronization tokens are easy to obtain and, in some cases, the attacker can maintain access to the account even after users change their password. For example, in the case of Dropbox, the tokens are not refreshed or revoked even if the password is changed. Google Drive has a more secure design since changing the password revokes all tokens and requires users to re-authenticate each device using account credentials. Another advantage of MITC attacks is the fact that malicious code is typically not left running on the targeted machine, and data flows out through a standard, encrypted channel, which makes it less likely to raise any suspicion, experts said. Furthermore, even if the attack is detected, the victim might have to cancel the breached account to keep hackers out. According to Imperva, attacks based on the architecture described in the company’s report have been spotted in the wild. One example is the Inception Framework analyzed last year by researchers at Blue Coat. There seems to be an increasing trend in the use of legitimate services by threat actors. Last month, FireEye published a report on HAMMERTOSS, a malicious backdoor leveraged by the Russian group known as APT29. HAMMERTOSS attacks involve the use of Twitter and GitHub for C&C communications, and cloud storage services for data exfiltration. Imperva advises organizations to mitigate such attacks by using cloud access security broker solutions to identify the compromise of cloud storage accounts, and by deploying database activity monitoring (DAM) and file activity monitoring (FAM) services to identify the abuse of internal data resources. Imperva's Hacker Intelligence Initiative report on Man-in-the-Cloud (MITC) attacks is available online in PDF format. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
 Today FireEye released a report on a threat group we call APT 30 – one of many threat groups we track. You may have seen other reports from FireEye that talk about attackers focused directly on Western targets - but this report details an attack group specifically targeting governments and businesses across the Indian subcontinent and the ASEAN nations. These persistent and methodical attackers have successfully targeted organizations across these regions for a decade, and have largely evaded detection until recently. If any organization, large or small, felt that advanced cyber attack affected only well-known companies and countries with large GDPs, this report should make you think twice. As APAC CTO for FireEye, I regularly find that organizations in Asia feel they are not likely to be a target of advanced cyber threat. In fact, advanced attackers, aware of the complacency, are exploiting it. The reality is that groups like APT 30 are actively and successfully stealing sensitive information across the region, and this region has some of the highest levels of targeted attacks that we see across the world. Asia’s businesses and governments are heavily targeted, but without the ability to detect these attacks they are largely unprotected from their impacts. This group has been able to operate successfully and remain undetected for many years and has not even had to change their attack infrastructure – a clear sign that their victims don’t realize this is happening. Business and government leaders should take action: cyber espionage, including that conducted by nation-states, is a very real problem across India and ASEAN. Today, 37% of FireEye’s customers in APAC detected advanced cyber attacks in the 2nd half of 2014 – in other words our customers in this region are 33% more likely to be targeted than the global average of 27%. This attack group, and others, are collectively stealing vast troves of information from all levels of government, defense, media, finance, manufacturing, telecommunications, and other industries - everything from business plans to contract negotiations to manufacturing and design schematics. The impacts can include the loss of key intellectual property, enabling competitors to steal market share, the loss of negotiation position information leading to inferior contracts and terms of trade, and the loss of major construction contracts due to competitive underbidding. The economic and diplomatic impacts of such espionage are very serious; since most governments and businesses in the region don't have the ability to detect, prevent, analyze and respond to these attacks, we may never know the full impact of APT30. What is clear is that these attacks can be detected and the impacts can be addressed but only with the right combination of technology, intelligence and expertise. For security practitioners, we have shared our Indicators of Compromise for you to deploy in your environments here: https://github.com/fireeye/iocs You can access the report here .
 APT30: The Mechanics Behind a Decade Long Cyber Espionage Operation When our Singapore-based FireEye Labs team examined malware aimed predominantly at entities in Southeast Asia and India, we suspected that we were peering into a regionally focused cyber espionage operation. In our latest Threat Intelligence Report, “APT 30 and the Mechanics of a Long-Running Cyber Espionage Operation,” we uncover a decade-long operation focused on targets—government and commercial—who hold key political, economic, and military information about the region. This report shares the tools, tactics, and procedures of APT 30 for organizations across the region to quickly begin to detect, prevent, analyze, and respond to this consistent threat. It also outlines the profile of the attacker for security practitioners to better understand their threats. In this report you will learn: How cyber espionage is not limited to targeting just the United States Why the South East Asian region has a specific set of challenges in cyber security Why the most successful APT groups use the path of least resistance to evade detection The benefits of sharing Threat Intelligence publicly Download the report today.
 The MsnMM Campaigns [pdf] For over half a decade, the Naikon APT waged multiple attack campaigns on sensitive targets throughout South-eastern Asia and around the South China Sea. It maintained a heavy offensive focus on Myanmar, Vietnam, Singapore, the Philippines, Malaysia, and Laos. Targets and victims included ASEAN governmental agencies and government departments, investment enterprises, military, law enforcement and border control organizations, embassies, university faculties and others. Parts of the campaigns have been publicly discussed according to the nature of their tools. For example, the MsnMM backdoors started out with internal names like “WinMM” and “SslMM”, and their file naming spoofed MSN Talk and Msn Gaming Zone. The backdoor term “naikon” was derived from the User-Agent string “NOKIAN95”. But msnMM, naikon, sakto, and rarstone backdoors are all used by the same actor that we call the Naikon APT. Their second stage tools largely remained unknown, but a list is included in this report. The Naikon attackers attempted to exfiltrate sensitive geo-political, military, and economic data; to intercept communications and to maintain surveillance on their victims throughout the MsnMM campaigns. Their toolset and techniques changed over time in many minor ways, and appear to be run by Chinese-speaking individuals. The group’s infrastructure, reliant on web apps located mostly via dynamic dns domains, overlapped across these campaigns. As previously described, the APT’s methods and technologies are simple, but highly effective against its targets’ defenses. We do not find 0-days here. Much of Naikon’s spear-phish and decoy document content, as well as its deployment, coincided approximately with highly-charged geopolitical events. The consistent list of military, economic, and political targets gave away the actor’s interests. Naikon’s earliest campaigns deployed the exe_exchange, winMM, and sys10 backdoors, and the codebase was later built out into more custom tools. The MsnMM campaigns were waged into the start of 2014, and then dropped off before picking up again later in the year and into 2015. Regarding interaction with other APTs, it’s interesting to note that Naikon APT victims overlap with Cycldek APT victims. Cycldek is another persistent, but weaker APT. In addition, not only does the APT30 target profile match the Naikon APT, its toolset also features minor but noticeable similarities. And the later Naikon campaigns led to an all out APT v APT confrontation with the Hellsing APT , when “the empire struck back.” Although aspects of the malware set have been discussed on some blogs and in other papers, there hasn’t been an accurate report bringing together details of the MsnMM, Sys10, and Naikon campaigns as the work of one crew, the Naikon APT. Finally, while this report looks into their past activity, the Naikon APT remains active, deploying a more recent codebase. The top targets for 2015 that we are aware of include organizations in Myanmar, Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, and Laos.
 Our recent report, “ The Chronicles of the Hellsing APT: the Empire Strikes Back ” began with an introduction to the Naikon APT, describing it as “One of the most active APTs in Asia, especially around the South China Sea”. Naikon was mentioned because of its role in what turned out to be a unique and surprising story about payback. It was a Naikon attack on a Hellsing-related organization that first introduced us to the Hellsing APT. Considering the volume of Naikon activity observed and its relentless, repeated attack attempts, such a confrontation was worth looking into, so we did. The #NaikonAPT group was spear-phished by an actor we now call “Hellsing” Tweet The Naikon APT aligns with the actor our colleagues at FireEye recently revealed to be APT30 , but we haven’t discovered any exact matches. It is hardly surprising that there is an element of overlap, considering both actors have for years mined victims in the South China Sea area, apparently in search of geo-political intelligence. The #NaikonAPT group has for 5 years mined victims, apparently in search of geo-political intelligence Tweet This Naikon report will be complemented by a follow-on report that will examine the Naikon TTP and the incredible volume of attack activity around the South China Sea that has been going on since at least 2010. Noteworthy operational and logistical characteristics of this APT include: At least five years of high volume, high profile, geo-political attack activity Geographical focus – per-country, individual operator assignment and proxy presence Dynamic, well organized infrastructure Reliance on an externally developed, consistent set of tools comprising a full-featured backdoor, a builder, and an exploit builder High success rate in infiltrating national organisations in ASEAN countries Highly Focused and Effective Around the South China Sea In the spring of 2014, we noticed an increase in the volume of attack activity by the Naikon APT. The attackers appeared to be Chinese-speaking and targeted mainly top-level government agencies and civil and military organizations in countries such as the Philippines, Malaysia, Cambodia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Myanmar, Singapore, Nepal, Thailand, Laos and China. Decoy An attack typically starts with an email carrying an attachment that contains information of interest to the potential victim. The document may be based on information from open sources or on proprietary information stolen from other compromised systems. This bait “document”, or email attachment, appears to be a standard Word document, but is in fact an CVE-2012-0158 exploit, an executable with a double extension, or an executable with an RTLO filename, so it can execute code without the user’s knowledge or consent. When the executable is launched, spyware is installed on the victim computer at the same time as a decoy document is displayed to the user; fooling them into thinking they have simply opened a document. Configuration The Naikon tool of choice generates a special, small, encrypted file which is 8,000 bytes in size, containing code to be injected into the browser along with configuration data. With the help of a start-up module, this whole file is injected into the browser memory and decrypts the configuration block containing the following: C&C server Ports and path to the server User-agent string Filenames and paths to its components Hash sums of the user API functions The same code then downloads its main body from the C&C server using the SSL protocol, loads it independently from the operating system functions and, without saving it to the hard drive, hands over control to the XS02 function. All functionality is handled in memory. Payload The main module is a remote administration utility. Using SSL, the module establishes a reverse connection to the C&C server as follows: it sets up an outgoing connection to the C&C server and checks if there is a command that it should execute. If there is, it executes the command and returns the result to the C&C. There are 48 commands in the module’s repertoire, which a remote operator can use to effectively control the victim computer. This includes taking a complete inventory, downloading and uploading data, installing add-on modules, or working with the command line. The main module supports 48 commands, which the attackers can use to control the victim machine #NaikonAPT Tweet Here is the complete list of commands: 0 CMD_MAIN_INFO 1 CMD_PROCESS_REFRESH 2 CMD_PROCESS_NAME 3 CMD_PROCESS_KILL 4 CMD_PROCESS_MODULE 5 CMD_DRIVE_REFRESH 6 CMD_DIRECTORY 7 CMD_DIRECTORY_CREATE 8 CMD_DIRECTORY_CREATE_HIDDEN 9 CMD_DIRECTORY_DELETE 10 CMD_DIRECTORY_RENAME 11 CMD_DIRECOTRY_DOWNLOAD 12 CMD_FILE_REFRESH 13 CMD_FILE_DELETE 14 CMD_FILE_RENAME 15 CMD_FILE_EXECUTE_NORMAL 16 CMD_FILE_EXECUTE_HIDDEN 17 CMD_FILE_EXECUTE_NORMAL_CMD 18 CMD_FILE_EXECUTE_HIDDEN_CMD 19 CMD_FILE_UPLOAD 20 CMD_FILE_DOWNLOAD 21 CMD_WINDOWS_INFO 22 CMD_WINDOWS_MESSAGE 23 CMD_SHELL_OPEN 24 CMD_SHELL_CLOSE 25 CMD_SHELL_WRITE 26 CMD_SERVICE_REFRESH 27 CMD_SERVICE_CONTROL 28 CMD_PROGRAM_INFO 29 CMD_UNINSTALL_PROGRAM 30 CMD_REGESTRY_INFO 31 CMD_ADD_AUTO_START 32 CMD_MY_PLUGIN 33 CMD_3RD_PLUGIN 34 CMD_REG_CREATEKEY 35 CMD_REG_DELETEKEY 36 CMD_REG_SETVALUE 37 CMD_REG_DELETEVALUE 38 CMD_SELF_KILL 39 CMD_SELF_RESTART 40 CMD_SELF_CONFIG 41 CMD_SELF_UPDATE 42 CMD_SERVER_INFO 43 CMD_INSTALL_SERVICE 44 CMD_FILE_DOWNLOAD2 45 CMD_RESET 46 CMD_CONNECTION_TABLE 50 CMD_HEART_BEAT Several modifications of the main module exist. There are no fundamental differences between modifications; it’s just that extra features get added to the latest versions, such as compression and encryption of transmitted data, or the piecemeal download of large files. d085ba82824c1e61e93e113a705b8e9a 118272 Aug 23 18:46:57 2012 b4a8dc9eb26e727eafb6c8477963829c 140800 May 20 11:56:38 2013 172fd9cce78de38d8cbcad605e3d6675 118784 Jun 13 12:14:40 2013 d74a7e7a4de0da503472f1f051b68745 190464 Aug 19 05:30:12 2013 93e84075bef7a11832d9c5aa70135dc6 154624 Jan 07 04:39:43 2014 CC-Proxy-Op C&C server operations are characterized by the following: Low maintenance requirements Organized geo-specific task assignments Different approaches to communication The C&C servers must have required only a few operators to manage the entire network. Each operator appears to have focused on their own particular set of targets, because a correlation exists between C&C and the location of targets/victims. There is a geo-specific correlation between the location of #NaikonAPT C&Cs and that of targets/victims Tweet Communication with victim systems changed depending on the target involved. In some cases, a direct connection was established between the victim computer and the C&C. In other cases, the connection was established via dedicated proxy servers installed on dedicated servers rented in third countries. In all likelihood, this additional setup was a reaction to the network administrators in some targets limiting or monitoring outbound network connections from their organizations. Here is a partial list of C&C servers and victim locations, demonstrating the geo-specific correlation: ID Jakarta linda.googlenow.in ID Jakarta admin0805.gnway.net ID Jakarta free.googlenow.in ID frankhere.oicp.net ID Bandung frankhere.oicp.net ID Bandung telcom.dhtu.info ID Jakarta laotel08.vicp.net JP Tokyo greensky27.vicp.net KH googlemm.vicp.net KH Phnom Penh googlemm.vicp.net MM peacesyou.imwork.net MM sayakyaw.xicp.net MM ubaoyouxiang.gicp.net MM Yangon htkg009.gicp.net MM kyawthumyin.xicp.net MM myanmartech.vicp.net MM test-user123.vicp.cc MY us.googlereader.pw MY net.googlereader.pw MY lovethai.vicp.net MY yahoo.goodns.in MY Putrajaya xl.findmy.pw MY Putrajaya xl.kevins.pw PH Caloocan oraydns.googlesec.pw PH Caloocan gov.yahoomail.pw PH pp.googledata.pw PH xl.findmy.pw PH mlfjcjssl.gicp.net PH o.wm.ggpw.pw PH oooppp.findmy.pw PH cipta.kevins.pw PH phi.yahoomail.pw SG Singapore xl.findmy.pw SG Singapore dd.googleoffice.in VN Hanoi moziliafirefox.wicp.net VN Hanoi bkav.imshop.in VN Hanoi baomoi.coyo.eu VN Dong Ket macstore.vicp.cc VN Hanoi downloadwindows.imwork.net VN Hanoi vietkey.xicp.net VN Hanoi baomoi.vicp.cc VN Hanoi downloadwindow.imwork.net VN Binh Duong www.ttxvn.net VN Binh Duong vietlex.gnway.net VN Hanoi www.ttxvn.net VN Hanoi us.googlereader.pw VN Hanoi yahoo.goodns.in VN Hanoi lovethai.vicp.net VN Hanoi vietlex.gnway.net XSControl – the Naikon APT’s “victim management software” In the Naikon scheme, a C&C server can be specialized XSControl software running on the host machine. It can be used to manage an entire network of infected clients. In some cases, a proxy is used to tunnel victim traffic to the XSControl server. A Naikon proxy server is a dedicated server that accepts incoming connections from victim computers and redirects them to the operator’s C&C. An individual Naikon proxy server can be set up in any target country with traffic tunnelling from victim systems to the related C&C servers XSControl is written in .NET with the use of DevExpress: Its main capabilities are: Accept initial connections from clients Provide clients with the main remote administration module Enable them to remotely administer infected computers with the help of a GUI Keep logs of client activity Keep logs of operator activity Upload logs and files to an FTP server The operator’s activity logs contain the following: An XML database of downloaded files, specifying the time of operation, the remote path and the local path A database of file names, the victim computer registry keys for the folders and requested sections A history of executed commands Country X, Operator X Now let’s do an overview of one Naikon campaign, focusing on country “X”. Analysis revealed that the cyber-espionage campaign against country X had been going on for many years. Computers infected with the remote control modules provided attackers with access to employees’ corporate email and internal resources, and access to personal and corporate email content hosted on external services. Below is a partial list of organizations affected by Naikon’s “operator X’s” espionage campaign in country X. Office of the President Military Forces Office of the Cabinet Secretary National Security Council Office of the Solicitor General Intelligence Services Civil Aviation Authority Department of Justice Federal Police Executive/Presidential Administration and Management Staff A few of these organizations were key targets and under continuous, real-time monitoring. It was during operator X’s network monitoring that the attackers placed Naikon proxies within the countries’ borders, to cloak and support real-time outbound connections and data exfiltration from high-profile victim organizations. In order to obtain employees’ credentials, operator X sometimes used keyloggers. If necessary, operator X delivered them via the remote control client. In addition to stealing keystrokes, this attacker also intercepted network traffic. Lateral movements included copying over and remotely setting up winpcap across desktop systems within sensitive office networks, then remotely setting up AT jobs to run these network sniffers. Some APTs like Naikon distribute tools such as these across multiple systems in order to regain control if it is lost accidentally and to maintain persistence. The #NaikonAPT group took advantage of cultural idiosyncrasies in its target countries Tweet Operator X also took advantage of cultural idiosyncrasies in its target countries, for example, the regular and widely accepted use of personal Gmail accounts for work. So it was not difficult for the Naikon APT to register similar-looking email addresses and to spear-phish targets with attachments, links to sites serving malware, and links to google drive. The empire strikes back Every once in a while the Naikon group clashes with other APT groups that are also active in the region. In particular, we noticed that the Naikon group was spear-phished by an actor we now call “Hellsing”. More details about the cloak and dagger games between Naikon and Hellsing can be found in our blogpost: “ The Chronicles of the Hellsing APT: The Empire Strikes Back “. Read more about how you can protect your company against the Naikon threat actor here
 FireEye Uncovers Decade-Long Cyber Espionage Campaign Targeting South East Asia FireEye on Sunday uncovered details of a decade-long cyber espionage campaign carried out by China targeting governments, journalists and businesses in South East Asia and India. Likely state sponsored by the Chinese government, FireEye said the threat actor group has been conducting cyber espionage operations since at least 2005 and is one of the first to use malware that infects air-gapped networks. Dubbed APT30 by FireEye, the group is supported by seasoned software developers following well-organized software development practices. According to FireEye, the attackers are “particularly interested” in targets holding information related to regional political, military, and economic issues, disputed territories, and media outlets and journalists who cover topics pertaining to China and the legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party. The group has consistently targeted organizations located in Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, Nepal, Singapore, Philippines and Indonesia among others. In a 69-page report released Sunday, FireEye said APT30 uses three pieces of malware designed to spread to removable drives with the intent of eventually infecting and stealing data from computers located on air-gapped networks. “While APT30 is certainly not the only group to build functionality to infect air-gapped networks into their operations, they appear to have made this a consideration at the very beginning of their development efforts in 2005, significantly earlier than many other advanced groups we track,” the report said. The attackers are likely operating at a sufficiently large scale that they benefit from the automated management of many of their tools, FireEye said, adding that the threat actors are interested in maintaining the latest and greatest versions of their tools in their victims’ environments. “This suite of tools includes downloaders, backdoors, a central controller, and several components designed to infect removable drives and cross air-gapped networks to steal data,” the report said. FireEye said many of the attack tools have not been used by any other threat actors. Interestingly, the attack tools, tactics, and procedures (TTPs) have remained markedly consistent since inception – a rare finding as most APT actors typically change up their TTPs regularly to evade detection, FireEye said. The developers of the attack tools “systematically label” and keep track of their malware versioning and go as far as using mutexes and events to ensure only a single copy is running at any given time. The malware command and control (C2) communications include a version check feature that enables the malware to update itself and provide a continuous update management capability. The attackers frequently registered their own domains for use with malware C2, some of the which have been in use for many years. “APT30 appears to focus not on stealing businesses’ valuable intellectual property or cutting-edge technologies, but on acquiring sensitive data about the immediate Southeast Asia region, where they pursue targets that pose a potential threat to the influence and legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party,” the report concluded. FireEye believes the attempts to compromise journalists and media outlets could be used to punish outlets that do not provide favorable coverage. As expected, China denied any involvement in the cyber attacks. "The Chinese government firmly opposes hacking attacks, this position is consistent and clear," foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei in Beijing, told AFP. “Advanced threat group like APT 30 illustrate that state-sponsored cyber espionage affects a variety of governments and corporations across the world,” said Dan McWhorter, VP of threat intelligence at FireEye. “Given the consistency and success of APT 30 in Southeast Asia and India, the threat intelligence on APT 30 we are sharing will empower the region’s governments and businesses to quickly begin to detect, prevent, analyze and respond to this established threat.” The report is available online in PDF format. FireEye also plans to publish indicators of compromise (IOCs) which can be downloaded from GitHub to help organizations detect APT 30 activity. *Updated with China response (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
 Naikon Threat Group Linked to Chinese Army Cyber threat intelligence companies ThreatConnect and Defense Group released on Thursday a joint report linking the advanced persistent threat (APT) group known as “Naikon” to a unit of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Naikon, a threat actor that has been active since at least 2010, has been targeting organizations around the South China Sea in search for geopolitical intelligence. The group has focused its efforts on breaching the systems of government, military and civil organizations in countries such as Malaysia, the Philippines, Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia, Myanmar, Singapore, Laos and Nepal. The activities of what later would become known as the Naikon APT came to light in 2012 when a hacktivist using the online moniker “Hardcore Charlie” published thousands of documents allegedly stolen from the systems of a Beijing-based military contractor named the China National Import & Export Corp (CEIEC). The files appeared to come from the networks of various governments and businesses in the U.S. and countries in the South China Sea region. The group’s operations and tools were later analyzed by researchers at Trend Micro, ThreatConnect, which in may 2014 noted that the actor’s efforts were aligned with the Chinese government’s interests, and Kaspersky, which noted in a report published earlier this year that the members of the group were Chinese speakers. The report published now by ThreatConnect and Defense Group covers various aspects of Naikon’s operations, including infrastructure, tools and tactics. However, researchers have focused on the connection between Naikon and one of the PLA’s technical reconnaissance bureaus (TBRs), namely the one located in the Chinese city of Kunming and known as Unit 78020. The report has been released just as Chinese President Xi Jinping heads to Washington for summit talks with his U.S. counterpart Barack Obama on topics such as cyber theft and the South China Sea. The intelligence gathered by ThreatConnect and Defense Group for attribution purposes focuses on a dynamic domain used by Naikon since at least 2010, namely greensky27.vicp.net. An analysis of the IP addresses associated with this domain shows that the city of Kunming is a central hub since a majority of connections have been traced there. This and other data collected by experts has led them to believe that the individual controlling greensky27.vicp.net is located near or in Kunming. Further analysis has revealed that this person is likely a PLA officer named Ge Xing. One of the clues tying Ge Xing to the greensky27.vicp.net domain is the “GreenSky27” moniker. The man has utilized this username on several online platforms, including the microblogging platform QQ Weibo, forums, and social media websites. Account information collected by researchers along with photographs posted by GreenSky27 on the Web allowed investigators to determine that Ge Xing from Kunming is behind this online moniker. Furthermore, evidence available on Chinese websites and his online profiles shows the connection between this individual and the PLA. “He launched his career as a PLA officer by attending the PLA International Studies University in 1998. Academic papers written by Ge Xing as a graduate student specifically place him at the Kunming TRB in 2008. Photos from his GreenSky27 QQ Weibo account from 2011 to 2014 place him at the Kunming TRB headquarters compound, underscoring his ongoing connection with the PLA,” researchers wrote in their report. After finding evidence linking Ge Xing to the PLA, experts looked for clues showing the man’s involvement in the Naikon campaigns. Researchers determined that whenever Ge’s posts on personal accounts indicated that he was traveling outside of Kunming, the greensky27.vicp.net infrastructure was either offline or parked. The domain went dormant when Ge’s child was born and when he visited a memorial hall dedicated to his family’s ancestors. ThreatConnect and Defense Group also noted that activity on the domain dropped considerably in May 2014 when the U.S. Department of Justice announced charging five Chinese military officers from the Army’s Unit 61398. On the same day, ThreatConnect published a report on Naikon’s activities. In the report published this year, Kaspersky Lab pointed out that Naikon’s activities align closely with a group dubbed by FireEye “APT30.” Toni Gidwani, director of analysis and production at ThreatConnect, noted that APT30 is a different group. “Although there appears to be some common targeting between the two APTs, there are differences between how the two register and manage their infrastructure,” Gidwani told SecurityWeek. “At this point in our research, we would not say they align closely although that certainly does not preclude the possibility of multiple China-based APTs targeting South China Sea equities.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
 FireEye Uncovers Decade-Long Cyber Espionage Campaign Targeting South East Asia FireEye on Sunday uncovered details of a decade-long cyber espionage campaign carried out by China targeting governments, journalists and businesses in South East Asia and India. Likely state sponsored by the Chinese government, FireEye said the threat actor group has been conducting cyber espionage operations since at least 2005 and is one of the first to use malware that infects air-gapped networks. Dubbed APT30 by FireEye, the group is supported by seasoned software developers following well-organized software development practices. According to FireEye, the attackers are “particularly interested” in targets holding information related to regional political, military, and economic issues, disputed territories, and media outlets and journalists who cover topics pertaining to China and the legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party. The group has consistently targeted organizations located in Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, Nepal, Singapore, Philippines and Indonesia among others. In a 69-page report released Sunday, FireEye said APT30 uses three pieces of malware designed to spread to removable drives with the intent of eventually infecting and stealing data from computers located on air-gapped networks. “While APT30 is certainly not the only group to build functionality to infect air-gapped networks into their operations, they appear to have made this a consideration at the very beginning of their development efforts in 2005, significantly earlier than many other advanced groups we track,” the report said. The attackers are likely operating at a sufficiently large scale that they benefit from the automated management of many of their tools, FireEye said, adding that the threat actors are interested in maintaining the latest and greatest versions of their tools in their victims’ environments. “This suite of tools includes downloaders, backdoors, a central controller, and several components designed to infect removable drives and cross air-gapped networks to steal data,” the report said. FireEye said many of the attack tools have not been used by any other threat actors. Interestingly, the attack tools, tactics, and procedures (TTPs) have remained markedly consistent since inception – a rare finding as most APT actors typically change up their TTPs regularly to evade detection, FireEye said. The developers of the attack tools “systematically label” and keep track of their malware versioning and go as far as using mutexes and events to ensure only a single copy is running at any given time. The malware command and control (C2) communications include a version check feature that enables the malware to update itself and provide a continuous update management capability. The attackers frequently registered their own domains for use with malware C2, some of the which have been in use for many years. “APT30 appears to focus not on stealing businesses’ valuable intellectual property or cutting-edge technologies, but on acquiring sensitive data about the immediate Southeast Asia region, where they pursue targets that pose a potential threat to the influence and legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party,” the report concluded. FireEye believes the attempts to compromise journalists and media outlets could be used to punish outlets that do not provide favorable coverage. As expected, China denied any involvement in the cyber attacks. "The Chinese government firmly opposes hacking attacks, this position is consistent and clear," foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei in Beijing, told AFP. “Advanced threat group like APT 30 illustrate that state-sponsored cyber espionage affects a variety of governments and corporations across the world,” said Dan McWhorter, VP of threat intelligence at FireEye. “Given the consistency and success of APT 30 in Southeast Asia and India, the threat intelligence on APT 30 we are sharing will empower the region’s governments and businesses to quickly begin to detect, prevent, analyze and respond to this established threat.” The report is available online in PDF format. FireEye also plans to publish indicators of compromise (IOCs) which can be downloaded from GitHub to help organizations detect APT 30 activity. *Updated with China response (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet For more than 10 years, Mike Lennon has been closely monitoring the threat landscape and analyzing trends in the National Security and enterprise cybersecurity space. In his role at SecurityWeek, he oversees the editorial direction of the publication and is the Director of several leading security industry conferences around the world.Previous Columns by Mike Lennon:Bot Fighter Shape Security Raises $26 MillionImperva to be Acquired for $2.1 Billion by Thoma BravoTanium Raises $200 Million at $6.5 Billion ValuationIndustrial Cybersecurity Firm Indegy Raises $18 MillionContainer Security Firm Twistlock Raises $33 Million 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
 Cyber espionage actors, now designated by FireEye as APT32 (OceanLotus Group), are carrying out intrusions into private sector companies across multiple industries and have also targeted foreign governments, dissidents, and journalists. FireEye assesses that APT32 leverages a unique suite of fully-featured malware, in conjunction with commercially-available tools, to conduct targeted operations that are aligned with Vietnamese state interests. APT32 and FireEye’s Community Response In the course of investigations into intrusions at several corporations with business interests in Vietnam, FireEye’s Mandiant incident response consultants uncovered activity and attacker-controlled infrastructure indicative of a significant intrusion campaign. In March 2017, in response to active targeting of FireEye clients, the team launched a Community Protection Event (CPE) – a coordinated effort between Mandiant incident responders, FireEye as a Service (FaaS), FireEye iSight Intelligence, and FireEye product engineering – to protect all clients from APT32 activity. In the following weeks, FireEye released threat intelligence products and updated malware profiles to customers while developing new detection techniques for APT32’s tools and phishing lures. This focused intelligence and detection effort led to new external victim identifications as well as providing sufficient technical evidence to link twelve prior intrusions, consolidating four previously unrelated clusters of threat actor activity into FireEye’s newest named advanced persistent threat group: APT32. APT32 Targeting of Private Sector Company Operations in Southeast Asia Since at least 2014, FireEye has observed APT32 targeting foreign corporations with a vested interest in Vietnam’s manufacturing, consumer products, and hospitality sectors. Furthermore, there are indications that APT32 actors are targeting peripheral network security and technology infrastructure corporations. Here is an overview of intrusions investigated by FireEye that are attributed to APT32: In 2014, a European corporation was compromised prior to constructing a manufacturing facility in Vietnam. In 2016, Vietnamese and foreign-owned corporations working in network security, technology infrastructure, banking, and media industries were targeted. In mid-2016, malware that FireEye believes to be unique to APT32 was detected on the networks of a global hospitality industry developer with plans to expand operations into Vietnam. From 2016 through 2017, two subsidiaries of U.S. and Philippine consumer products corporations, located inside Vietnam, were the target of APT32 intrusion operations. Table 1 shows a breakdown of APT32 activity, including the malware families used in each. Year Country Industry Malware 2014 Vietnam Network Security WINDSHIELD 2014 Germany Manufacturing WINDSHIELD 2015 Vietnam Media WINDSHIELD 2016 Philippines Consumer products KOMPROGO WINDSHIELD SOUNDBITE BEACON 2016 Vietnam Banking WINDSHIELD 2016 Philippines Technology Infrastructure WINDSHIELD 2016 China Hospitality WINDSHIELD 2016 Vietnam Media WINDSHIELD 2016 United States Consumer Products WINDSHIELD PHOREAL BEACON SOUNDBITE Table 1: APT32 Private Sector Targeting Identified by FireEye APT32 Interest in Political Influence and Foreign Governments In addition to focused targeting of the private sector with ties to Vietnam, APT32 has also targeted foreign governments, as well as Vietnamese dissidents and journalists since at least 2013. Here is an overview of this activity: A public blog published by the Electronic Frontier Foundation indicated that journalists, activists, dissidents, and bloggers were targeted in 2013 by malware and tactics consistent with APT32 operations. In 2014, APT32 leveraged a spear-phishing attachment titled “Plans to crackdown on protesters at the Embassy of Vietnam.exe," which targeted dissident activity among the Vietnamese diaspora in Southeast Asia. Also in 2014, APT32 carried out an intrusion against a Western country’s national legislature. In 2015, SkyEye Labs, the security research division of the Chinese firm Qihoo 360, released a report detailing threat actors that were targeting Chinese public and private entities including government agencies, research institutes, maritime agencies, sea construction, and shipping enterprises. The information included in the report indicated that the perpetrators used the same malware, overlapping infrastructure, and similar targets as APT32. In 2015 and 2016, two Vietnamese media outlets were targeted with malware that FireEye assesses to be unique to APT32. In 2017, social engineering content in lures used by the actor provided evidence that they were likely used to target members of the Vietnam diaspora in Australia as well as government employees in the Philippines. APT32 Tactics In their current campaign, APT32 has leveraged ActiveMime files that employ social engineering methods to entice the victim into enabling macros. Upon execution, the initialized file downloads multiple malicious payloads from remote servers. APT32 actors continue to deliver the malicious attachments via spear-phishing emails. APT32 actors designed multilingual lure documents which were tailored to specific victims. Although the files had “.doc” file extensions, the recovered phishing lures were ActiveMime “.mht” web page archives that contained text and images. These files were likely created by exporting Word documents into single file web pages. Table 2 contains a sample of recovered APT32 multilingual lure files. ActiveMime Lure Files MD5 2017年员工工资性津贴额统计报告.doc (2017 Statistical Report on Staff Salary and Allowances) 5458a2e4d784abb1a1127263bd5006b5 Thong tin.doc (Information) ce50e544430e7265a45fab5a1f31e529 Phan Vu Tutn CV.doc 4f761095ca51bfbbf4496a4964e41d4f Ke hoach cuu tro nam 2017.doc (2017 Bailout Plan) e9abe54162ba4572c770ab043f576784 Instructions to GSIS.doc fba089444c769700e47c6b44c362f96b Hoi thao truyen thong doc lap.doc (Traditional Games) f6ee4b72d6d42d0c7be9172be2b817c1 Giấy yêu cầu bồi thường mới 2016 - hằng.doc (New 2016 Claim Form) aa1f85de3e4d33f31b4f78968b29f175 Hoa don chi tiet tien no.doc (Debt Details) 5180a8d9325a417f2d8066f9226a5154 Thu moi tham du Hoi luan.doc (Collection of Participants) f6ee4b72d6d42d0c7be9172be2b817c1 Danh sach nhan vien vi pham ky luat.doc (List of Employee Violations) 6baafffa7bf960dec821b627f9653e44 Nội-dung-quảng-cáo.doc (Internal Content Advertising) 471a2e7341f2614b715dc89e803ffcac HĐ DVPM-VTC 31.03.17.doc f1af6bb36cdf3cff768faee7919f0733 Table 2: Sampling of APT32 Lure Files The Base64 encoded ActiveMime data also contained an OLE file with malicious macros. When opened, many lure files displayed fake error messages in an attempt to trick users into launching the malicious macros. Figure 1 shows a fake Gmail-theme paired with a hexadecimal error code that encourages the recipient to enable content to resolve the error. Figure 2 displays another APT32 lure that used a convincing image of a fake Windows error message instructing the recipient to enable content to properly display document font characters. Figure 1: Example APT32 Phishing Lure – Fake Gmail Error Message Figure 2: Example APT32 Phishing Lure – Fake Text Encoding Error Message APT32 operators implemented several novel techniques to track the efficacy of their phishing, monitor the distribution of their malicious documents, and establish persistence mechanisms to dynamically update backdoors injected into memory. In order to track who opened the phishing emails, viewed the links, and downloaded the attachments in real-time, APT32 used cloud-based email analytics software designed for sales organizations. In some instances, APT32 abandoned direct email attachments altogether and relied exclusively on this tracking technique with links to their ActiveMime lures hosted externally on legitimate cloud storage services. To enhance visibility into the further distribution of their phishing lures, APT32 utilized the native web page functionality of their ActiveMime documents to link to external images hosted on APT32 monitored infrastructure. Figure 3 contains an example phishing lure with HTML image tags used for additional tracking by APT32. Figure 3: Phishing Lure Containing HTML Image Tags for Additional Tracking When a document with this feature is opened, Microsoft Word will attempt to download the external image, even if macros were disabled. In all phishing lures analyzed, the external images did not exist. Mandiant consultants suspect that APT32 was monitoring web logs to track the public IP address used to request remote images. When combined with email tracking software, APT32 was able to closely track phishing delivery, success rate, and conduct further analysis about victim organizations while monitoring the interest of security firms. Once macros were enabled on the target system, the malicious macros created two named scheduled tasks as persistence mechanisms for two backdoors on the infected system. The first named scheduled task launched an application whitelisting script protection bypass to execute a COM scriptlet that dynamically downloaded the first backdoor from APT32’s infrastructure and injected it into memory. The second named scheduled task, loaded as an XML file to falsify task attributes, ran a JavaScript code block that downloaded and launched a secondary backdoor, delivered as a multi-stage PowerShell script. In most lures, one scheduled task persisted an APT32-specific backdoor and the other scheduled task initialized a commercially-available backdoor as backup. To illustrate the complexity of these lures, Figure 4 shows the creation of persistence mechanisms for recovered APT32 lure “2017年员工工资性津贴额统计报告.doc”. Figure 4: APT32 ActiveMime Lures Create Two Named Scheduled Tasks In this example, a scheduled task named “Windows Scheduled Maintenance” was created to run Casey Smith’s “Squiblydoo” App Whitelisting bypass every 30 minutes. While all payloads can be dynamically updated, at the time of delivery, this task launched a COM scriptlet (“.sct” file extension) that downloaded and executed Meterpreter hosted on images.chinabytes[.]info. Meterpreter then loaded Cobalt Strike BEACON, configured to communicate with 80.255.3[.]87 using the Safebrowsing malleable C2 profile to further blend in with network traffic. A second scheduled task named “Scheduled Defrags” was created by loading the raw task XML with a backdated task creation timestamp of June 2, 2016. This second task ran “mshta.exe” every 50 minutes which launched an APT32-specific backdoor delivered as shellcode in a PowerShell script, configured to communicate with the domains blog.panggin[.]org, share.codehao[.]net, and yii.yiihao126[.]net. Figure 5 illustrates the chain of events for a single successful APT32 phishing lure that dynamically injects two multi-stage malware frameworks into memory. Figure 5: APT32 Phishing Chain of Events The impressive APT32 operations did not stop after they established a foothold in victim environments. Several Mandiant investigations revealed that, after gaining access, APT32 regularly cleared select event log entries and heavily obfuscated their PowerShell-based tools and shellcode loaders with Daniel Bohannon’s Invoke-Obfuscation framework. APT32 regularly used stealthy techniques to blend in with legitimate user activity: During one investigation, APT32 was observed using a privilege escalation exploit (CVE-2016-7255) masquerading as a Windows hotfix. In another investigation, APT32 compromised the McAfee ePO infrastructure to distribute their malware as a software deployment task in which all systems pulled the payload from the ePO server using the proprietary SPIPE protocol. APT32 also used hidden or non-printing characters to help visually camouflage their malware on a system. For example, APT32 installed one backdoor as a persistent service with a legitimate service name that had a Unicode no-break space character appended to it. Another backdoor used an otherwise legitimate DLL filename padded with a non-printing OS command control code. APT32 Malware and Infrastructure APT32 appears to have a well-resourced development capability and uses a custom suite of backdoors spanning multiple protocols. APT32 operations are characterized through deployment of signature malware payloads including WINDSHIELD, KOMPROGO, SOUNDBITE, and PHOREAL. APT32 often deploys these backdoors along with the commercially-available Cobalt Strike BEACON backdoor. APT32 may also possess backdoor development capabilities for macOS . The capabilities for this unique suite of malware is shown in Table 3. Malware Capabilities WINDSHIELD Command and control (C2) communications via TCP raw sockets Four configured C2s and six configured ports – randomly-chosen C2/port for communications Registry manipulation Get the current module's file name Gather system information including registry values, user name, computer name, and current code page File system interaction including directory creation, file deletion, reading, and writing files Load additional modules and execute code Terminate processes Anti-disassembly KOMPROGO Fully-featured backdoor capable of process, file, and registry management Creating a reverse shell File transfers Running WMI queries Retrieving information about the infected system SOUNDBITE C2 communications via DNS Process creation File upload Shell command execution File and directory enumeration/manipulation Window enumeration Registry manipulation System information gathering PHOREAL C2 communications via ICMP Reverse shell creation Filesystem manipulation Registry manipulation Process creation File upload BEACON (Cobalt Strike) Publicly available payload that can inject and execute arbitrary code into processes Impersonating the security context of users Importing Kerberos tickets Uploading and downloading files Executing shell commands Configured with malleable C2 profiles to blend in with normal network traffic Co-deployment and interoperability with Metasploit framework SMB Named Pipe in-memory backdoor payload that enables peer-to-peer C2 and pivoting over SMB Table 3: APT32 Malware and Capabilities APT32 operators appear to be well-resourced and supported as they use a large set of domains and IP addresses as command and control infrastructure. The FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence MySIGHT Portal contains additional information on these backdoor families based on Mandiant investigations of APT32 intrusions. Figure 6 provides a summary of APT32 tools and techniques mapped to each stage of the attack lifecycle. Figure 6: APT32 Attack Lifecycle Outlook and Implications Based on incident response investigations, product detections, and intelligence observations along with additional publications on the same operators, FireEye assesses that APT32 is a cyber espionage group aligned with Vietnamese government interests. The targeting of private sector interests by APT32 is notable and FireEye believes the actor poses significant risk to companies doing business in, or preparing to invest in, the country. While the motivation for each APT32 private sector compromise varied – and in some cases was unknown – the unauthorized access could serve as a platform for law enforcement, intellectual property theft, or anticorruption measures that could ultimately erode the competitive advantage of targeted organizations. Furthermore, APT32 continues to threaten political activism and free speech in Southeast Asia and the public sector worldwide. Governments, journalists, and members of the Vietnam diaspora may continue to be targeted. While actors from China, Iran, Russia, and North Korea remain the most active cyber espionage threats tracked and responded to by FireEye, APT32 reflects a growing host of new countries that have adopted this dynamic capability. APT32 demonstrates how accessible and impactful offensive capabilities can be with the proper investment and the flexibility to embrace newly-available tools and techniques. As more countries utilize inexpensive and efficient cyber operations, there is a need for public awareness of these threats and renewed dialogue around emerging nation-state intrusions that go beyond public sector and intelligence targets. APT32 Detection Figure 7 contains a Yara rule can be used to identify malicious macros associated with APT32’s phishing lures: Figure 7: Yara Rule for APT32 Malicious Macros Table 4 contains a sampling of the infrastructure that FireEye has associated with APT32 C2. C2 Infrastructure 103.53.197.202 104.237.218.70 104.237.218.72 185.157.79.3 193.169.245.78 193.169.245.137 23.227.196.210 24.datatimes.org 80.255.3.87 blog.docksugs.org blog.panggin.org contay.deaftone.com check.paidprefund.org datatimes.org docksugs.org economy.bloghop.org emp.gapte.name facebook-cdn.net gap-facebook.com gl-appspot.org help.checkonl.org high.expbas.net high.vphelp.net icon.torrentart.com images.chinabytes.info imaps.qki6.com img.fanspeed.net job.supperpow.com lighpress.info menmin.strezf.com mobile.pagmobiles.info news.lighpress.info notificeva.com nsquery.net pagmobiles.info paidprefund.org push.relasign.org relasign.org share.codehao.net seri.volveri.net ssl.zin0.com static.jg7.org syn.timeizu.net teriava.com timeizu.net tonholding.com tulationeva.com untitled.po9z.com update-flashs.com vieweva.com volveri.net vphelp.net yii.yiihao126.net zone.apize.net Table 4: Sampling of APT32 C2 Infrastructure
 APT32: Vietnamese Hackers Target Foreign Corporations APT32 is the "newest named advanced persistent threat group," according to a new report from FireEye. Published yesterday, the report shows it to be a sophisticated and well-resourced cyber espionage actor targeting Vietnamese interests around the globe -- and although not-previously classified in the APTn schema, it has been operating since at least 2013. The APT designation was also commenced back in 2013, when Mandiant used it to describe the first hacking group, APT1, that it was willing to call 'state-sponsored'. FireEye's analysis stops short of defining APT32 as another state-sponsored hacking group; but that is the clear suspicion. "APT32," writes Nick Carr, senior manager of FireEye's Mandiant Incident Response team, "leverages a unique suite of fully-featured malware, in conjunction with commercially-available tools, to conduct targeted operations that are aligned with Vietnamese state interests." He subsequently told Reuters it was impossible to identify or locate the hackers precisely or confirm they were working for the Vietnamese government but the information they sought would be of very little use to any other party. He also said that in some cases the intrusions seemed to be assessing the victims' adherence to national regulations. The Vietnamese government denies this. "The government of Vietnam does not allow any form of cyber-attacks against organizations or individuals," said foreign ministry spokeswoman Le Thi Thu Hang. "All cyber-attacks or threats to cybersecurity, must be condemned and severely punished in accordance with regulations and laws." The APT32 targets include a European corporation that was about to construct a manufacturing facility in Vietnam in 2014; numerous Vietnamese and foreign corporations in 2016; a hospitality developer planning to expand operations in Vietnam in 2016; and the Vietnamese offices of a global consulting firm in 2017. In all cases, espionage would give the Vietnam government either a commercial advantage in discussions, or greater understanding of foreign companies within the country. Other attacks, however, have been targeted at individuals outside of Vietnam -- more specifically governments, journalists, and members of the Vietnam diaspora who, warns Carr, "may continue to be targeted." FireEye's isolation of APT32 followed its investigations into intrusions at several corporations with business interests in Vietnam. These investigations provided "sufficient technical evidence to link twelve prior intrusions, consolidating four previously unrelated clusters of threat actor activity into FireEye's newest named advanced persistent threat group: APT32." FireEye's analysis of APT32's current campaign depicts a well-resourced and innovative attacker. It uses phishing emails containing a weaponized attachment. Unusually, the attachment is not a Word document but an ActiveMime (an undocumented Microsoft format) file. This file contains an OLE file containing malicious macros. The attacker also used a novel approach to track the success of its phishing emails, using legitimate cloud-based email analytics. The phishing attachment can contain HTML image tags. "When a document with this feature is opened," writes Carr, "Microsoft Word will attempt to download the external image, even if macros were disabled. In all phishing lures analyzed, the external images did not exist. Mandiant consultants suspect that APT32 was monitoring web logs to track the public IP address used to request remote images. When combined with email tracking software, APT32 was able to closely track phishing delivery, success rate, and conduct further analysis about victim organizations while monitoring the interest of security firms." If the macros are successfully loaded, they create two scheduled tasks to act as persistence mechanisms for two backdoors. The first launches Squiblydoo, an application whitelisting script protection bypass, to enable the download of a backdoor from APT's infrastructure. The second leads to a secondary backdoor delivered as a multi-stage PowerShell script configured to communicate with the domains blog.panggin[.]org, share.codehao[.]net, and yii.yiihao126[.]net. APT32's persistence and obfuscation goes further. "Several Mandiant investigations revealed that, after gaining access, APT32 regularly cleared select event log entries and heavily obfuscated their PowerShell-based tools and shellcode loaders with Daniel Bohannon's Invoke-Obfuscation framework," notes the analysis. It is APT32's use of a custom suite of backdoors that has helped FireEye tie different campaigns to this one particular group. That suite includes Windshield, Komprogo, Soundbite, Phoreal, and Beacon. "FireEye assesses that APT32 is a cyber espionage group aligned with Vietnamese government interests," writes Carr. He warns that APT32 demonstrates that state-sponsored cyber espionage is no longer necessarily limited to the few known actors: China, Iran, Russia, and North Korea. "As more countries utilize inexpensive and efficient cyber operations, there is a need for public awareness of these threats and renewed dialogue around emerging nation-state intrusions that go beyond public sector and intelligence targets." (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
 How APT32 Hacked a Global Asian Firm With Persistence In a cyber intrusion dubbed Operation Cobalt Kitty, the OceanLotus hacking group -- otherwise known as APT32 -- played cat-and-mouse with a security firm that was tracking its every move. Cybereason (a Boston, Mass.-based provider of threat detection solutions) had been employed by a large global firm operating in Asia that suspected, but could not locate, a breach. The investigators found evidence of an ongoing intrusion by advanced hackers it recognized as the OceanLotus Group. Earlier this month, FireEye all but declared the group -- designated by FireEye as APT32 - to be a Vietnamese nation-state actor. Cybereason's investigation showed that this group had been inside the Asian firm for more than a year before it was discovered. Furthermore, the attacker took ongoing evasive action to retain its presence even though it almost certainly knew it had been detected. During the investigation, Cybereason found more than 70 payloads and numerous domains. It discovered six custom-built tools that it considers to be the OceanLotus Group's signature tools. FireEye's report noted five such tools; but Cybereason also detected Backdoor.Win32.Denis, first described by Kaspersky just last month, which it now adds to the OceanLotus armory. Win32.Denis uses DNS tunneling for C&C communications. Cybereason was able to uncover the entire lifecycle of the Cobalt Kitty operation. The attack started with targeted spear-phishing emails: one with a link to a fake Flash installer and another with an attached weaponized Office document. The Word document contained a malicious macro that creates persistence on the compromised machine using two scheduled tasks. In both cases, the end purpose was to download secondary payloads including Cobalt Strike Beacon. The process is 'fileless'. Persistence is maintained through the Windows registry, services and scheduled tasks. A PowerShell script is used to fetch Cobalt Strike Beacon, which also operates in memory. Cybereason reported its discoveries to the client, who then used both Windows Group Policy Object (GPO) and Cybereason's execution prevention feature that prevents PowerShell execution. But the attacker didn't give up -- the group adapted, initially concentrating on its own custom and stealthy backdoors. It then resumed the PowerShell operation. "The attackers used a modified version of a publicly available tool called PSUnlock to bypass the PowerShell execution restrictions," notes the report. Cybereason suspects that the group were ready and prepared for this scenario. "The attackers' remarkable ability to quickly adapt," suggests Cybereason, "demonstrates their skill and familiarity with and command of the company's internal network and its operations." The attacker also used DLL hijacking leveraging Windows Search, Google Update and Kaspersky's Avpia to load fake DLLs containing malicious code. It used DNS tunneling for C2 communication and data exfiltration. "To ensure that the DNS traffic will not be filtered," reports Cybereason, "the attackers configured the backdoor to communicate with Google and OpenDNS DNS servers, since most organizations and security products will not filter traffic to those two major DNS services." It also employed an innovative additional and difficult-to-detect C2 channel by installing a backdoor macro in Outlook. It was able to execute commands, deploy tools and steal data via email. The macro looks for incoming commands, deletes the relevant email, executes the discovered commands from the deleted items folder, and finally deletes all evidence of the emails sent or received from the attackers. "This backdoor has not been publicly documented," says Cybereason, "and is one of the most unique TTPs with regards to the threat actor. Outlook backdoors are not a new concept and have been observed in different APTs in the past. However, this specific type of Outlook backdoor can be considered as one of the 'signature tools' of the OceanLotus Group." Similar to the methodology attributed by FireEye to APT32, the group combined its custom backdoors with freely available tools; for example, using Mimikatz as the primary tool to obtain credentials and aid lateral movement. Throughout the operation, the OceanLotus Group showed a preference for using and adapting such publicly available tools. "However, the attackers should not be considered script-kiddies," says the report. "Most of the publicly available tools were either obfuscated, modified and even merged with other tools to evade antivirus detection. This type of customization requires good coding skills and understanding of how those tools work." Cybereason does not go as far as FireEye in suggesting that OceanLotus may be state-sponsored, but it describes the group as "determined and motivated... they never gave up, even when part of their attack infrastructure was exposed and shut down by the defenders." It doesn't name the victim firm, nor does it specifically tie the intrusion to Vietnamese interests. All that Cybereason would tell SecurityWeek is, "We can only specify that the attackers are targeting a global corporation in Asia." Nevertheless, a wider analysis of OceanLotus suggests that "Most of the samples caught in-the-wild seem to target Vietnamese speakers. Some of the samples exhibit clear evidence of targeting Vietnamese entities." As for the group itself, Operation Cobalt Kitty outlines attackers with "a remarkable ability to quickly adapt, introduce new tools and fine tune existing ones to bypass security solutions and avoid detection. The high number of payloads and the elaborate C2 infrastructure used in this attack can be indicative of the resources that the attackers had at their disposal. Simultaneously orchestrating multiple APT campaigns of such magnitude and sophistication takes time, financial resources and a large team who can support it." Cybereason closed a $25 million Series B funding round in May 2015, and quickly followed that with a $59 million Series C funding round in October 2015. Overall, the company has raised more than $88 million in funding. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Kevin Townsend is a Senior Contributor at SecurityWeek. He has been writing about high tech issues since before the birth of Microsoft. For the last 15 years he has specialized in information security; and has had many thousands of articles published in dozens of different magazines – from The Times and the Financial Times to current and long-gone computer magazines.Previous Columns by Kevin Townsend:Cyberattacks Against Energy Sector Are Higher Than Average: ReportUK Regulator Issues Second GDPR Enforcement Notice on Canadian Firm Proposal for Cybersecurity Civilian Corps Gets Mixed ReceptionAI-Facilitated Product Aims to Stop Spear-Phishing Attacks 92% of External Web Apps Have Exploitable Security Flaws or Weaknesses: Report 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
 "OceanLotus" Spies Use New Backdoor in Recent Attacks OceanLotus, a cyber-espionage group believed to be operating out of Vietnam, has been using a new backdoor in recently observed attacks, but also using previously established tactics, ESET reveals. Also known as APT32 and APT-C-00, the advanced persistent threat (APT) has been targeting high-profile corporate and government organizations in Southeast Asia, particularly in Vietnam, the Philippines, Laos, and Cambodia. The group is well-resourced and determined and is known to be using custom-built malware in combination with techniques long known to be successful. One of the latest malware families used by the group is a fully-fledged backdoor that provides operators with remote access to compromised machines, along with the ability to manipulate files, registries, and processes, as well as the option to load additional components if needed. For distribution purposes, OceanLotus uses a two-stage attack that employs a dropper to gain initial foothold on the targeted system and prepare the stage for the backdoor, ESET explains in a new report (PDF). Spear-phishing emails are used to lure victims into opening an attachment that uses a fake icon to load password-protected decoy document while the malicious dropper is executed in the background. Fake installers posing as updates for popular applications are also used, as part of watering hole attacks, where websites that the victims are likely to visit are compromised. The dropper package includes components executed in a number of stages involving heavy code obfuscation to prevent detection. The malware authors also included garbage code in the dropper, for similar purposes. To achieve persistence, the dropper creates a Windows service if administrator privileges are available, or modifies the operating system’s registry if executed with normal privileges. Code designed to delete the lure document is also dropped onto the system. A digitally-signed Symantec executable (rastlsc.exe) is also dropped, along with a malicious Dynamic Link Library (DLL) named rastls.dll (detected as Win32/Salgorea.BD). The signed executable loads the malicious DLL, which makes the malicious behavior look legitimate, a technique (called DLL side-loading) that has been abused before. The backdoor supports over 23 commands to: fingerprint the system; read a file or registry key; create a process; create a file, a registry entry or a stream in memory; write to or query the registry; search for files on the system; move files to directories or delete them from disk; list the drives mapped to the system; create or delete directories; call the PE Loader; drop and execute a program; run shellcode in a new thread, and more. “Once again, OceanLotus shows that the team is active and continues to update its toolset. This also demonstrates its intention to remain hidden by picking its targets, limiting the distribution of their malware and using several different servers to avoid attracting attention to a single domain or IP address. The encryption of the payload, together with the side-loading technique – despite its age – is a good way to stay under the radar, since the malicious activities look like they come from the legitimate application,” ESET concludes. Related: Vietnamese Spies Rival Notorious Russian Group in Sophistication Related: How APT32 Hacked a Global Asian Firm With Persistence (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
 Campaign Targets Russian-Speaking Enterprises With New Backdoor A malicious email campaign that has been active for at least two months is targeting Russian-speaking enterprises and delivering a new Windows-based backdoor, Trend Micro warns. The attack relies on a variety of exploits and Windows components to run malicious scripts in an attempt to make detection and blocking more challenging. The earliest sample associated with the attack was uploaded to VirusTotal on June 6, 2017 and Trend Micro observed five spam runs from June 23 to July 27, 2017. The campaign is believed to be ongoing. Targets in this attack included financial institutions (such as banks) and mining firms. Trend Micro's researchers noticed that the attackers have diversified their tactics by sending different, targeted emails for each run. Because of the emails’ limited distribution and specificity in social engineering lures, they should be considered part of a spear-phishing campaign, Trend Micro says. The emails look as if they come from sales and billing departments and contain a malformed Rich Text Format (RTF) file that exploits a vulnerability (CVE-2017-0199) in Microsoft Office’s Windows Object Linking and Embedding (OLE) interface that was patched in April (the flaw is still being abused by threat actors such as Cobalt and CopyKittens). Once the exploit code was executed, it downloads a fake XLS file embedded with malicious JavaScript. When opened, the Excel header is ignored and the file is treated as an HTML Application file by the Windows component mshta.exe. The JavaScript code calls the odbcconf.exe normal executable, which performs various tasks associated with Microsoft Data Access Components, to run the DLL. Once executed, the DLL drops a file in the %APPDATA% folder and appends the .TXT extension to it, although this is an SCT file (Windows scriptlet) normally used to declare variables, define expressions, and add functional codes in web pages, but packed with malicious, obfuscated JavaScript as part of this attack. The DLL calls the Regsvr32 (Microsoft Register Server) command-line utility to execute with specific parameters. Called Squiblydoo, this attack method abuses Regsvr32 to bypass restrictions on running scripts and evade application whitelisting protections such as AppLocker, and was previously associated with the activities of Vietnamese hacking group APT32. “While Squiblydoo is already a known attack vector, this is the first time we’ve seen it combined with odbcconf.exe,” Trend Micro notes. Next, another XML file is executed, after being downloaded from the domain wecloud[.]biz. This is the main backdoor used in this attack, which is executed using the same Regsvr32-abusing Squiblydoo attack technique. The backdoor is a SCT file with obfuscated JavaScript code inside and supports commands that “essentially allow attackers to take over an infected system.” The backdoor attempts to connect to the command and control (C&C) server at hxxps://wecloud[.]biz/mail/ajax[.]php and retrieve tasks. Based on the received commands, the malware can download and execute Portable Executable (PE) files, delete files/startup entries and terminate, download additional/new scripts, run new script and terminate current script, or run command shell commands. “While the later stages of the infection chain required the use of various Windows components, the entry point still involves the use of a Microsoft Office exploit. Patching and keeping software up-to-date will protect users. Alternately, employing firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention systems, virtual patching, and URL categorization, as well as enforcing robust patch management policies, will significantly reduce the system’s attack surface,” Trend Micro notes. Related: Cobalt Hackers Now Using Supply Chain Attacks Related: Iranian 'CopyKittens' Conduct Foreign Espionage (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
 Vietnamese Spies Rival Notorious Russian Group in Sophistication The campaigns of a cyber espionage group believed to be operating out of Vietnam have become increasingly sophisticated, up to the point where they rival operations launched by the notorious Russia-linked advanced persistent threat (APT) actor known as Turla, incident response firm Volexity said on Monday. The group, tracked as OceanLotus and APT32, has been around since at least 2012, targeting various types of organizations in Southeast Asian countries such as Vietnam, Philippines and China, with some campaigns extending to Europe and the United States. The list of targeted entities includes governments, journalists, activists, tech firms, consumer product manufacturers, banks, and organizations in the hospitality sector. OceanLotus has used both Windows and Mac malware in its operations, along with some clever techniques that have allowed the group to evade detection. Volexity has been tracking the threat actor since May 2017, specifically attacks aimed at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), and media, human rights, and civil society organizations. The security firm agrees with FireEye’s previous assessment that OceanLotus is likely based in Vietnam. “Volexity believes the size and scale of this attack campaign have only previously been rivaled by a Russian APT group commonly referred to as Turla,” the security firm said in a blog post. Volexity’s analysis showed that OceanLotus’s watering hole attacks involved more than 100 compromised websites belonging to government, military, media, civil society, human rights and oil exploitation entities. Researchers determined that the group’s attacks are highly targeted; the compromised sites served malicious code only to visitors who were on a whitelist. Targeted users are shown a fake screen designed to trick them into authorizing a malicious Google app that could access the victim’s emails and contacts. Some of the compromised websites were also set up to deliver backdoors and other types of tools, including legitimate software (e.g. Cobalt Strike) and custom malware. Researchers also noticed that the attackers created many fake domains designed to mimic legitimate services such as AddThis, Akamai, Baidu, Cloudflare, Disqus, Facebook and Google. Many of these websites leveraged SSL certificates provided by Let’s Encrypt, whose services have been increasingly abused by cybercriminals. “Volexity believes the OceanLotus threat group has rapidly advanced its capabilities and is now one of the more sophisticated APT actors currently in operation,” the company concluded. OceanLotus’ sophistication was also described recently in a report from Cybereason, which detailed the group’s cat-and-mouse games within the systems of a global company operating in Asia. Related: Vietnam's Tien Phong Bank Victim of SWIFT-based Attack Related: Second SWIFT Attack Hits Vietnam Bank Showing Links to Sony Hack (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Malware
 New macOS Backdoor Linked to Cyber-espionage Group A recently discovered macOS backdoor is believed to be a new version of malware previously associated with the OceanLotus cyber-espionage group, Trend Micro says. Also known as APT 32, APT-C-00, SeaLotus, and Cobalt Kitty, OceanLotus is believed to be operating out of Vietnam and has been targeting high-profile corporate and government organizations in Southeast Asia. Well-resourced and determined, the group uses custom-built malware and already established techniques. Some of the group’s targets include human rights organizations, media organizations, research institutes, and maritime construction firms. The newly discovered macOS backdoor, which Trend Micro detects as OSX_OCEANLOTUS.D, has been observed on machines that have the Perl programming language installed. The malware is being distributed via malicious documents attached to emails. The document masquerades as the registration form for an event with HDMC, an organization in Vietnam that advertises national independence and democracy. The document contains malicious, obfuscated macros with a payload written in Perl. The macro extracts an XML file from the Word document. This file is an executable acting as the dropper for the final payload, which is the backdoor. The dropper, which has all of its strings encrypted using a hardcoded RSA256 key, is also used to establish the backdoor’s persistence on the infected systems. The dropper checks whether it runs as root or not, and uses different path and filename based on that. The dropper sets the backdoor’s attributes to “hidden” and uses random values for the file date and time, and deletes itself at the end of the process. The backdoor has two main functions, which collect platform information and sending it to the command and control (C&C) server. It can also receive additional C&C communication information, which is encrypted before being sent. “Malicious attacks targeting Mac devices are not as common as its counterparts, but the discovery of this new macOS backdoor that is presumably distributed via phishing email calls for every user to adopt best practices for phishing attacks regardless of operating system,” Trend Micro concludes. Related: "OceanLotus" Spies Use New Backdoor in Recent Attacks Related: Vietnamese Spies Rival Notorious Russian Group in Sophistication (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
 Breaches Increasingly Discovered Internally: Mandiant Organizations are getting increasingly better at discovering data breaches on their own, with more than 60% of intrusions in 2017 detected internally, according to FireEye-owned Mandiant. The company’s M-Trends report for 2018 shows that the global median time for internal detection dropped to 57.5 days in 2017, compared to 80 days in the previous year. Of the total number of breaches investigated by Mandiant last year, 62% were discovered internally, up from 53% in 2016. On the other hand, it still took roughly the same amount of time for organizations to learn that their systems had been compromised. The global median dwell time in 2017 – the median time from the first evidence of a hack to detection – was 101 days, compared to 99 days in 2016. Companies in the Americas had the shortest median dwell time (75.5 days), while organizations in the APAC region had the longest dwell time (nearly 500 days). Data collected by Mandiant in 2013 showed that more than one-third of organizations had been attacked again after the initial incident had been remediated. More recent data, specifically from the past 19 months, showed that 56% of Mandiant customers were targeted again by either the same group or one with similar motivation. In cases where investigators discovered at least one type of significant activity (e.g. compromised accounts, data theft, lateral movement), the targeted organization was successfully attacked again within one year. Organizations that experienced more than one type of significant activity were attacked by more than one threat actor. Again, the highest percentage of companies attacked multiple times and by multiple threat groups was in the APAC region – more than double compared to the Americas and the EMEA region. When it comes to the most targeted industries, companies in the financial and high-tech sectors recorded the highest number of significant attacks, while the high-tech, telecommunications and education sectors were hit by the highest number of different hacker groups. Last year, FireEye assigned names to four state-sponsored threat groups, including the Vietnam-linked APT32 (OceanLotus), and the Iran-linked APT33, APT34 (OilRig), and APT35 (NewsBeef, Newscaster and Charming Kitten). “Iran-sponsored threat actors have compromised a variety of organizations, but recently they have expanded their efforts in a way that previously seemed beyond their grasp,” Mandiant said in its report. “Today they leverage strategic web compromises (SWC) to ensnare more victims, and concurrently maintain persistence across multiple organizations for months and sometimes years. Rather than relying on publicly available malware and utilities, they develop and deploy custom malware. When they are not carrying out destructive attacks against their targets, they are conducting espionage and stealing data like professionals.” Related: Organizations Getting Better at Detecting Breaches Related: Financial Attackers as Sophisticated as Nation-State Groups (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Incident Response Cybercrime Management & Strategy
 When discussing suspected Middle Eastern hacker groups with destructive capabilities, many automatically think of the suspected Iranian group that previously used SHAMOON – aka Disttrack – to target organizations in the Persian Gulf. However, over the past few years, we have been tracking a separate, less widely known suspected Iranian group with potential destructive capabilities, whom we call APT33. Our analysis reveals that APT33 is a capable group that has carried out cyber espionage operations since at least 2013. We assess APT33 works at the behest of the Iranian government. Recent investigations by FireEye’s Mandiant incident response consultants combined with FireEye iSIGHT Threat Intelligence analysis have given us a more complete picture of APT33’s operations, capabilities, and potential motivations. This blog highlights some of our analysis. Our detailed report on FireEye MySIGHT contains a more thorough review of our supporting evidence and analysis. We will also be discussing this threat group further during our webinar on Sept. 21 at 8 a.m. ET. Targeting APT33 has targeted organizations – spanning multiple industries – headquartered in the United States, Saudi Arabia and South Korea. APT33 has shown particular interest in organizations in the aviation sector involved in both military and commercial capacities, as well as organizations in the energy sector with ties to petrochemical production. From mid-2016 through early 2017, APT33 compromised a U.S. organization in the aerospace sector and targeted a business conglomerate located in Saudi Arabia with aviation holdings. During the same time period, APT33 also targeted a South Korean company involved in oil refining and petrochemicals. More recently, in May 2017, APT33 appeared to target a Saudi organization and a South Korean business conglomerate using a malicious file that attempted to entice victims with job vacancies for a Saudi Arabian petrochemical company. We assess the targeting of multiple companies with aviation-related partnerships to Saudi Arabia indicates that APT33 may possibly be looking to gain insights on Saudi Arabia’s military aviation capabilities to enhance Iran’s domestic aviation capabilities or to support Iran’s military and strategic decision making vis a vis Saudi Arabia. We believe the targeting of the Saudi organization may have been an attempt to gain insight into regional rivals, while the targeting of South Korean companies may be due to South Korea’s recent partnerships with Iran’s petrochemical industry as well as South Korea’s relationships with Saudi petrochemical companies. Iran has expressed interest in growing their petrochemical industry and often posited this expansion in competition to Saudi petrochemical companies. APT33 may have targeted these organizations as a result of Iran’s desire to expand its own petrochemical production and improve its competitiveness within the region. The generalized targeting of organizations involved in energy and petrochemicals mirrors previously observed targeting by other suspected Iranian threat groups, indicating a common interest in the sectors across Iranian actors. Figure 1 shows the global scope of APT33 targeting. Figure 1: Scope of APT33 Targeting Spear Phishing APT33 sent spear phishing emails to employees whose jobs related to the aviation industry. These emails included recruitment themed lures and contained links to malicious HTML application (.hta) files. The .hta files contained job descriptions and links to legitimate job postings on popular employment websites that would be relevant to the targeted individuals. An example .hta file excerpt is provided in Figure 2. To the user, the file would appear as benign references to legitimate job postings; however, unbeknownst to the user, the .hta file also contained embedded code that automatically downloaded a custom APT33 backdoor. Figure 2: Excerpt of an APT33 malicious .hta file We assess APT33 used a built-in phishing module within the publicly available ALFA TEaM Shell (aka ALFASHELL) to send hundreds of spear phishing emails to targeted individuals in 2016. Many of the phishing emails appeared legitimate – they referenced a specific job opportunity and salary, provided a link to the spoofed company’s employment website, and even included the spoofed company’s Equal Opportunity hiring statement. However, in a few cases, APT33 operators left in the default values of the shell’s phishing module. These appear to be mistakes, as minutes after sending the emails with the default values, APT33 sent emails to the same recipients with the default values removed. As shown in Figure 3, the “fake mail” phishing module in the ALFA Shell contains default values, including the sender email address (solevisible@gmail[.]com), subject line (“your site hacked by me”), and email body (“Hi Dear Admin”). Figure 3: ALFA TEaM Shell v2-Fake Mail (Default) Figure 4 shows an example email containing the default values the shell. Figure 4: Example Email Generated by the ALFA Shell with Default Values Domain Masquerading APT33 registered multiple domains that masquerade as Saudi Arabian aviation companies and Western organizations that together have partnerships to provide training, maintenance and support for Saudi’s military and commercial fleet. Based on observed targeting patterns, APT33 likely used these domains in spear phishing emails to target victim organizations. The following domains masquerade as these organizations: Boeing, Alsalam Aircraft Company, Northrop Grumman Aviation Arabia (NGAAKSA), and Vinnell Arabia. boeing.servehttp[.]com alsalam.ddns[.]net ngaaksa.ddns[.]net ngaaksa.sytes[.]net vinnellarabia.myftp[.]org Boeing, Alsalam Aircraft company, and Saudia Aerospace Engineering Industries entered into a joint venture to create the Saudi Rotorcraft Support Center in Saudi Arabia in 2015 with the goal of servicing Saudi Arabia’s rotorcraft fleet and building a self-sustaining workforce in the Saudi aerospace supply base. Alsalam Aircraft Company also offers military and commercial maintenance, technical support, and interior design and refurbishment services. Two of the domains appeared to mimic Northrop Grumman joint ventures. These joint ventures – Vinnell Arabia and Northrop Grumman Aviation Arabia – provide aviation support in the Middle East, specifically in Saudi Arabia. Both Vinnell Arabia and Northrop Grumman Aviation Arabia have been involved in contracts to train Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of National Guard. Identified Persona Linked to Iranian Government We identified APT33 malware tied to an Iranian persona who may have been employed by the Iranian government to conduct cyber threat activity against its adversaries. We assess an actor using the handle “xman_1365_x” may have been involved in the development and potential use of APT33’s TURNEDUP backdoor due to the inclusion of the handle in the processing-debugging (PDB) paths of many of TURNEDUP samples. An example can be seen in Figure 5. Figure 5: “xman_1365_x" PDB String in TURNEDUP Sample Xman_1365_x was also a community manager in the Barnamenevis Iranian programming and software engineering forum, and registered accounts in the well-known Iranian Shabgard and Ashiyane forums, though we did not find evidence to suggest that this actor was ever a formal member of the Shabgard or Ashiyane hacktivist groups. Open source reporting links the “xman_1365_x” actor to the “Nasr Institute,” which is purported to be equivalent to Iran’s “cyber army” and controlled by the Iranian government. Separately, additional evidence ties the “Nasr Institute” to the 2011-2013 attacks on the financial industry, a series of denial of service attacks dubbed Operation Ababil. In March 2016, the U.S. Department of Justice unsealed an indictment that named two individuals allegedly hired by the Iranian government to build attack infrastructure and conduct distributed denial of service attacks in support of Operation Ababil. While the individuals and the activity described in indictment are different than what is discussed in this report, it provides some evidence that individuals associated with the “Nasr Institute” may have ties to the Iranian government. Potential Ties to Destructive Capabilities and Comparisons with SHAMOON One of the droppers used by APT33, which we refer to as DROPSHOT, has been linked to the wiper malware SHAPESHIFT. Open source research indicates SHAPESHIFT may have been used to target organizations in Saudi Arabia. Although we have only directly observed APT33 use DROPSHOT to deliver the TURNEDUP backdoor, we have identified multiple DROPSHOT samples in the wild that drop SHAPESHIFT. The SHAPESHIFT malware is capable of wiping disks, erasing volumes and deleting files, depending on its configuration. Both DROPSHOT and SHAPESHIFT contain Farsi language artifacts, which indicates they may have been developed by a Farsi language speaker (Farsi is the predominant and official language of Iran). While we have not directly observed APT33 use SHAPESHIFT or otherwise carry out destructive operations, APT33 is the only group that we have observed use the DROPSHOT dropper. It is possible that DROPSHOT may be shared amongst Iran-based threat groups, but we do not have any evidence that this is the case. In March 2017, Kasperksy released a report that compared DROPSHOT (which they call Stonedrill) with the most recent variant of SHAMOON (referred to as Shamoon 2.0). They stated that both wipers employ anti-emulation techniques and were used to target organizations in Saudi Arabia, but also mentioned several differences. For example, they stated DROPSHOT uses more advanced anti-emulation techniques, utilizes external scripts for self-deletion, and uses memory injection versus external drivers for deployment. Kaspersky also noted the difference in resource language sections: SHAMOON embeds Arabic-Yemen language resources while DROPSHOT embeds Farsi (Persian) language resources. We have also observed differences in both targeting and tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) associated with the group using SHAMOON and APT33. For example, we have observed SHAMOON being used to target government organizations in the Middle East, whereas APT33 has targeted several commercial organizations both in the Middle East and globally. APT33 has also utilized a wide range of custom and publicly available tools during their operations. In contrast, we have not observed the full lifecycle of operations associated with SHAMOON, in part due to the wiper removing artifacts of the earlier stages of the attack lifecycle. Regardless of whether DROPSHOT is exclusive to APT33, both the malware and the threat activity appear to be distinct from the group using SHAMOON. Therefore, we assess there may be multiple Iran-based threat groups capable of carrying out destructive operations. Additional Ties Bolster Attribution to Iran APT33’s targeting of organizations involved in aerospace and energy most closely aligns with nation-state interests, implying that the threat actor is most likely government sponsored. This coupled with the timing of operations – which coincides with Iranian working hours – and the use of multiple Iranian hacker tools and name servers bolsters our assessment that APT33 may have operated on behalf of the Iranian government. The times of day that APT33 threat actors were active suggests that they were operating in a time zone close to 04:30 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). The time of the observed attacker activity coincides with Iran’s Daylight Time , which is +0430 UTC. APT33 largely operated on days that correspond to Iran’s workweek, Saturday to Wednesday. This is evident by the lack of attacker activity on Thursday, as shown in Figure 6. Public sources report that Iran works a Saturday to Wednesday or Saturday to Thursday work week, with government offices closed on Thursday and some private businesses operating on a half day schedule on Thursday. Many other Middle East countries have elected to have a Friday and Saturday weekend. Iran is one of few countries that subscribes to a Saturday to Wednesday workweek. APT33 leverages popular Iranian hacker tools and DNS servers used by other suspected Iranian threat groups. The publicly available backdoors and tools utilized by APT33 – including NANOCORE, NETWIRE, and ALFA Shell – are all available on Iranian hacking websites, associated with Iranian hackers, and used by other suspected Iranian threat groups. While not conclusive by itself, the use of publicly available Iranian hacking tools and popular Iranian hosting companies may be a result of APT33’s familiarity with them and lends support to the assessment that APT33 may be based in Iran. Figure 6: APT33 Interactive Commands by Day of Week Outlook and Implications Based on observed targeting, we believe APT33 engages in strategic espionage by targeting geographically diverse organizations across multiple industries. Specifically, the targeting of organizations in the aerospace and energy sectors indicates that the threat group is likely in search of strategic intelligence capable of benefitting a government or military sponsor. APT33’s focus on aviation may indicate the group’s desire to gain insight into regional military aviation capabilities to enhance Iran’s aviation capabilities or to support Iran’s military and strategic decision making. Their targeting of multiple holding companies and organizations in the energy sectors align with Iranian national priorities for growth, especially as it relates to increasing petrochemical production. We expect APT33 activity will continue to cover a broad scope of targeted entities, and may spread into other regions and sectors as Iranian interests dictate. APT33’s use of multiple custom backdoors suggests that they have access to some of their own development resources, with which they can support their operations, while also making use of publicly available tools. The ties to SHAPESHIFT may suggest that APT33 engages in destructive operations or that they share tools or a developer with another Iran-based threat group that conducts destructive operations. Appendix Malware Family Descriptions Malware Family Description Availability DROPSHOT Dropper that has been observed dropping and launching the TURNEDUP backdoor, as well as the SHAPESHIFT wiper malware Non-Public NANOCORE Publicly available remote access Trojan (RAT) available for purchase. It is a full-featured backdoor with a plugin framework Public NETWIRE Backdoor that attempts to steal credentials from the local machine from a variety of sources and supports other standard backdoor features. Public TURNEDUP Backdoor capable of uploading and downloading files, creating a reverse shell, taking screenshots, and gathering system information Non-Public Indicators of Compromise APT33 Domains Likely Used in Initial Targeting Domain boeing.servehttp[.]com alsalam.ddns[.]net ngaaksa.ddns[.]net ngaaksa.sytes[.]net vinnellarabia.myftp[.]org APT33 Domains / IPs Used for C2 C2 Domain MALWARE managehelpdesk[.]com NANOCORE microsoftupdated[.]com NANOCORE osupd[.]com NANOCORE mywinnetwork.ddns[.]net NETWIRE www.chromup[.]com TURNEDUP www.securityupdated[.]com TURNEDUP googlmail[.]net TURNEDUP microsoftupdated[.]net TURNEDUP syn.broadcaster[.]rocks TURNEDUP www.googlmail[.]net TURNEDUP Publicly Available Tools used by APT33 MD5 MALWARE Compile Time (UTC) 3f5329cf2a829f8840ba6a903f17a1bf NANOCORE 2017/1/11 2:20 10f58774cd52f71cd4438547c39b1aa7 NANOCORE 2016/3/9 23:48 663c18cfcedd90a3c91a09478f1e91bc NETWIRE 2016/6/29 13:44 6f1d5c57b3b415edc3767b079999dd50 NETWIRE 2016/5/29 14:11 Unattributed DROPSHOT / SHAPESHIFT MD5 Hashes MD5 MALWARE Compile Time (UTC) 0ccc9ec82f1d44c243329014b82d3125 DROPSHOT (drops SHAPESHIFT n/a - timestomped fb21f3cea1aa051ba2a45e75d46b98b8 DROPSHOT n/a - timestomped 3e8a4d654d5baa99f8913d8e2bd8a184 SHAPESHIFT 2016/11/14 21:16:40 6b41980aa6966dda6c3f68aeeb9ae2e0 SHAPESHIFT 2016/11/14 21:16:40 APT33 Malware MD5 Hashes MD5 MALWARE Compile Time (UTC) 8e67f4c98754 2373a49eaf53425d79a DROPSHOT (drops TURNEDUP) 2016/10/19 14:26 c57c5529d91cffef3ec8dadf61c5ffb2 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 c02689449a4ce73ec79a52595ab590f6 TURNEDUP 2016/9/18 10:50 59d0d27360c9534d55596891049eb3ef TURNEDUP 2016/3/8 12:34 59d0d27360c9534d55596891049eb3ef TURNEDUP 2016/3/8 12:34 797bc06d3e0f5891591b68885d99b4e1 TURNEDUP 2015/3/12 5:59 8e6d5ef3f6912a7c49f8eb6a71e18ee2 TURNEDUP 2015/3/12 5:59 32a9a9aa9a81be6186937b99e04ad4be TURNEDUP 2015/3/12 5:59 a272326cb5f0b73eb9a42c9e629a0fd8 TURNEDUP 2015/3/9 16:56 a813dd6b81db331f10efaf1173f1da5d TURNEDUP 2015/3/9 16:56 de9e3b4124292b4fba0c5284155fa317 TURNEDUP 2015/3/9 16:56 a272326cb5f0b73eb9a42c9e629a0fd8 TURNEDUP 2015/3/9 16:56 b3d73364995815d78f6d66101e718837 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 de7a44518d67b13cda535474ffedf36b TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 b5f69841bf4e0e96a99aa811b52d0e90 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 a2af2e6bbb6551ddf09f0a7204b5952e TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 b189b21aafd206625e6c4e4a42c8ba76 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 aa63b16b6bf326dd3b4e82ffad4c1338 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 c55b002ae9db4dbb2992f7ef0fbc86cb TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 c2d472bdb8b98ed83cc8ded68a79c425 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 c6f2f502ad268248d6c0087a2538cad0 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 c66422d3a9ebe5f323d29a7be76bc57a TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 ae47d53fe8ced620e9969cea58e87d9a TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 b12faab84e2140dfa5852411c91a3474 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 c2fbb3ac76b0839e0a744ad8bdddba0e TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 a80c7ce33769ada7b4d56733d02afbe5 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 6a0f07e322d3b7bc88e2468f9e4b861b TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 b681aa600be5e3ca550d4ff4c884dc3d TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 ae870c46f3b8f44e576ffa1528c3ea37 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 bbdd6bb2e8827e64cd1a440e05c0d537 TURNEDUP 2014/6/1 11:01 0753857710dcf96b950e07df9cdf7911 TURNEDUP 2013/4/10 10:43 d01781f1246fd1b64e09170bd6600fe1 TURNEDUP 2013/4/10 10:43 1381148d543c0de493b13ba8ca17c14f TURNEDUP 2013/4/10 10:43
 MILPITAS, Calif. – September 20, 2017 – FireEye, Inc. (NASDAQ: FEYE), the intelligence-led security company, today announced details of an Iranian hacking group with potential destructive capabilities which FireEye has named APT33. FireEye analysis reveals that APT33 has carried out cyber espionage operations since at least 2013 and is likely to work for the Iranian government. This information comes from recent investigations by FireEye ® Mandiant ® incident response consultants combined with FireEye iSIGHT ® Threat Intelligence analysis which uncovered information on APT33’s operations, capabilities, and potential motivations. Targeting APT33 has targeted organizations – spanning multiple industries – headquartered in the United States, Saudi Arabia and South Korea. The group has shown particular interest in organizations in the aviation sector involved in both military and commercial capacities, as well as organizations in the energy sector with ties to petrochemical production. From mid-2016 through early 2017, APT33 compromised a U.S. organization in the aviation sector and targeted a business conglomerate located in Saudi Arabia with aviation holdings. During the same time period, the group also targeted a South Korean company involved in oil refining and petrochemicals. In May 2017, APT33 appeared to target a Saudi Arabian organization and a South Korean business conglomerate using a malicious file that attempted to entice victims with job vacancies for a Saudi Arabian petrochemical company. FireEye analysts believe the targeting of the Saudi Arabian organization may have been an attempt to gain insight into regional rivals, while the targeting of South Korean companies could be due to South Korea’s partnerships with Iran’s petrochemical industry as well as South Korea’s relationships with Saudi Arabian petrochemical companies. APT33 may have targeted these organizations as a result of Iran’s desire to expand its own petrochemical production and improve its competitiveness within the region. Spear Phishing The group sent spear phishing emails to employees whose jobs related to the aviation industry. These emails included recruitment themed lures and contained links to malicious HTML application files. The files contained job descriptions and links to legitimate job postings on popular employment websites that would be relevant to the targeted individuals. In a few cases, APT33 operators left in the default values of the shell’s phishing module. These appear to be mistakes, as minutes after sending the emails with the default values, the group sent emails to the same recipients with the default values removed. Domain Masquerading APT33 registered multiple domains that masquerade as Saudi Arabian aviation companies and Western organizations that have partnerships to provide training, maintenance and support for Saudi Arabia’s military and commercial fleet. Based on observed targeting patterns, APT33 likely used these domains in spear phishing emails to target victim organizations. Additional Ties Bolster Attribution to Iran APT33’s targeting of organizations involved in aviation and energy most closely aligns with nation-state interests, implying that the threat actor is most likely government sponsored. This coupled with the timing of operations – which coincides with Iranian working hours – and the use of multiple Iranian hacker tools and name servers bolsters the FireEye assessment that APT33 is likely to have operated on behalf of the Iranian government. John Hultquist, Director of Intelligence Analysis at FireEye said, “Iran has repeatedly demonstrated a willingness to globally leverage its cyber espionage capabilities. Its aggressive use of this tool, combined with shifting geopolitics, underscore the danger that APT33 poses to governments and commercial interests in the Middle East and throughout the world. Identifying this group and its destructive capability presents an opportunity for organizations to detect and deal with related threats proactively.” Learn more about APT33: APT33 Threat Research Blog APT33 Webinar About FireEye, Inc. FireEye is the intelligence-led security company. Working as a seamless, scalable extension of customer security operations, FireEye offers a single platform that blends innovative security technologies, nation-state grade threat intelligence, and world-renowned Mandiant ® consulting. With this approach, FireEye eliminates the complexity and burden of cyber security for organizations struggling to prepare for, prevent, and respond to cyber-attacks. FireEye has over 6,000 customers across 67 countries, including more than 40 percent of the Forbes Global 2000. © 2017 FireEye, Inc. All rights reserved. FireEye, Mandiant and iSIGHT are registered trademarks or trademarks of FireEye, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brands, products, or service names are or may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners. Contacts Media: Peter Beck FireEye, Inc. +44 7887 480510 media.relations@FireEye.com Investor Relations: Kate Patterson (408) 321-4957 kate.patterson@FireEye.com
 Iranian Hackers Target Aerospace, Energy Companies A cyber espionage group linked by security researchers to the Iranian government has been observed targeting aerospace and energy organizations in the United States, Saudi Arabia and South Korea. The threat actor, tracked by FireEye as APT33, is believed to have been around since at least 2013. Since mid-2016, the security firm has spotted attacks aimed by this group at the aviation sector, including military and commercial aviation, and energy companies with connections to petrochemical production. Specifically, the cyberspies targeted a U.S. organization in the aerospace sector, a Saudi Arabian business conglomerate with aviation holdings, and a South Korean firm involved in oil refining and petrochemicals. In recent attacks, the hackers used job vacancies at a Saudi Arabian petrochemical firm to target the employees of organizations in South Korea and Saudi Arabia. “We assess the targeting of multiple companies with aviation-related partnerships to Saudi Arabia indicates that APT33 may possibly be looking to gain insights on Saudi Arabia’s military aviation capabilities to enhance Iran’s domestic aviation capabilities or to support Iran’s military and strategic decision making vis a vis Saudi Arabia,” FireEye said in a blog post. “We believe the targeting of the Saudi organization may have been an attempt to gain insight into regional rivals, while the targeting of South Korean companies may be due to South Korea’s recent partnerships with Iran’s petrochemical industry as well as South Korea’s relationships with Saudi petrochemical companies,” the company added. According to FireEye, the cyber espionage group sent hundreds of spear phishing emails last year. They set up several domains made to look as if they belonged to Saudi aviation firms and international organizations that work with them, including Alsalam Aircraft Company, Boeing and Northrop Grumman Aviation Arabia. The malware used by the group includes a dropper tracked by FireEye as DROPSHOT, a wiper named SHAPESHIFT, and a backdoor called TURNEDUP. DROPSHOT was previously analyzed by Kaspersky, which tracks it as StoneDrill. The StoneDrill malware was tied by Kaspersky to the notorious Shamoon 2 and Charming Kitten (aka Newscaster and NewsBeef), a threat actor believed to be operating out of Iran. FireEye has also linked APT33 to Iran based on connections to the “Nasr Institute,” which is said to be Iran’s “cyber army”, attacks launched during Iranian working hours, and the use of Iranian hacking tools. Iran appears to have several cyber espionage groups, including Rocket Kitten, Cobalt Gypsy (Magic Hound), Charming Kitten and CopyKittens. Related: Iranian Hackers Exploit Recent Office 0-Day in Attacks Related: Iranian Cyberspy Groups Share Malware Code Related: Iran-Linked Hackers Use "Mia Ash" Honey Trap to Compromise Targets (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Phishing Virus & Malware Malware
 Five Threat Groups Target Industrial Systems: Dragos There are at least five sophisticated threat groups whose activities focus on industrial control systems (ICS), according to a report published on Thursday by industrial cybersecurity firm Dragos. While it’s not uncommon for non-targeted malware to make its way onto industrial systems, targeted attacks have also become increasingly common. Dragos currently tracks five threat actors that have either attacked ICS directly or have shown an interest in gathering information on these types of systems. One of these groups is tracked by the security firm as Electrum. This is the actor behind the CRASHOVERRIDE/Industroyer malware used in December 2016 to cause a power outage in Ukraine. Electrum has been linked to Sandworm Team, which is believed to be responsible for a 2015 power outage in Ukraine. Russia has been accused for both attacks. While it apparently hasn’t launched any major attacks since the 2016 campaign targeting Ukraine’s energy sector, Dragos says Electrum continues to be active, and evidence suggests it has expanded targets. “While past ELECTRUM activity has focused exclusively on Ukraine, information from low- level ongoing events and the group’s link to SANDWORM Dragos assesses that ELECTRUM could be ‘re-tasked’ to other areas depending on the focus of their sponsor,” Dragos said in its report. Another gang tracked by Dragos is Covellite, which has been linked to North Korea’s Lazarus group. Researchers started observing Covellite in September 2017, when it launched a highly targeted phishing campaign against a U.S. electric grid company. They later spotted attacks that may have been conducted by this group aimed at organizations in Europe, North America and East Asia. Unlike Electrum, Covellite has yet to use malware specifically designed to target industrial systems in its campaigns. Dragos’ report also summarizes the activities of Dymalloy, a group whose attacks came to light during an investigation into Dragonfly, an actor that is also known as Crouching Yeti and Energetic Bear. Dragonfly, which is believed to be operating out of Russia, is known for its sophisticated Havex malware, and it was recently observed targeting control systems in U.S. energy firms. Dragos believes Dymalloy is not linked – at least not directly – to Dragonfly and its tools are not as advanced as Havex. However, the hackers did manage to breach ICS organizations in Turkey, Europe and North America, gaining access to HMI devices. Experts say Dymalloy appears to have become less active since early 2017, possibly in response to attention from the media and security researchers. Learn More at SecurityWeek’s ICS Cyber Security Conference Since mid-2017, Dragos has been tracking a group it has named Chrysene, whose activity focuses on North America, Western Europe, Israel and Iraq, particularly organizations in the electricity generation and oil&gas sectors. Chrysene, which continues to be active, has used a unique variation of a framework associated with the Iran-linked cyber espionage groups known as OilRig and Greenbug. “While CHRYSENE’s malware features notable enhancements over related threat groups using similar tools, Dragos has not yet observed an ICS-specific capability employed by this activity group. Instead, all activity thus far appears to focus on IT penetration and espionage, with all targets being ICS-related organizations,” Dragos said. It’s worth noting that the recently uncovered piece of malware known as Trisis/Triton, which is the first threat specifically designed to disrupt safety instrumented systems (SIS), has also been linked by some researchers to Iran. The last ICS-focused threat group monitored by Dragos is Magnallium, which has also been linked to Iran. The security firm started tracking this actor following a report from FireEye on the activities of APT33. While some media reports portrayed APT33 as a serious threat to ICS and critical infrastructure, Dragos’ investigation showed that the group does not appear to possess any ICS-specific capabilities. “While only one [of these groups] has demonstrated an apparent capability to impact ICS networks through ICS-specific malware directly, all have engaged in at least reconnaissance and intelligence gathering surrounding the ICS environment,” Dragos said. “These groups have remained relatively constant regarding overall activity throughout the year, and Dragos is confident that additional unknown events have occurred,” the company added. Related: DHS Warns of Malware Targeting Industrial Safety Systems Related: DDoS Attacks More Likely to Hit Critical Infrastructure Than APTs (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY SCADA / ICS Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
 Iranian Hackers Impersonate Israeli Security Firm A group of Iranian hackers focused on cyber-espionage recently built up a website to impersonate ClearSky Cyber Security, the Israeli firm that exposed their activities not long ago. The hackers, tracked as APT35 and also known as NewsBeef, Newscaster, and Charming Kitten, have been active since at least 2011, with their activities detailed for the first time several years ago. In December 2017, ClearSky Cyber Security published a report detailing the group’s activities during the 2016-2017 timeframe. The security firm not only described the actor’s infrastructure, but also provided information on DownPaper, a new piece of malware the hackers had been using. The security firm exposed the link between the group and Behzad Mesri, also known as Skote Vahshat, who was charged in November 2017 with the hacking of HBO. Furthermore, the researchers also managed to establish the identity of two other alleged members of the group. Roughly half a year after the report was published, the security firm announced on its Twitter account that the hackers built their own site impersonating ClearSky. “#CharmingKitten built a phishing website impersonating our company. The fake website is clearskysecurity\.net (the real website is http://clearskysec.com),” the security firm announced. The advanced persistent threat (APT) apparently copied entire pages from the legitimate website, but also changed one of them to include a sign in option with multiple services. Anyone entering credentials there would have had them sent to the actor instead. “These sign in options are all phishing pages that would send the victim's credentials to the attackers. Our legitimate website does not have any sign in option. It seems that the impersonating website is still being built because some of the pages have error messages in them,” the security firm announced. One of the pages on the fake website, the security researchers discovered, featured content related to a Charming Kitten campaign that ClearSky exposed only several weeks ago. That page, however, wasn’t customized to look like the security firm’s website. The fake website started being flagged as deceptive soon after ClearSky discovered it. The security firm says that its employees, services, and customers were not affected. Over the past years, security researchers managed to link various hacking groups to Iran, including APT33, Rocket Kitten, Magic Hound, and CopyKittens, and even revealed that they tend to share infrastructure and malware code. Related: HBO Hacker Linked to Iranian Spy Group Related: Iranian Cyberspies Use New Trojan in Middle East Attacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
 Industry Reactions to Iran Cyber Retaliation Over U.S. Nuclear Deal Exit President Donald Trump announced this week that the U.S. is withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal and reimposing sanctions on the Middle Eastern country. Many experts fear that Iran will retaliate by launching cyberattacks on Western organizations. Industry professionals contacted by SecurityWeek all say that there is a strong possibility of attacks, but they mostly agree that Iran will likely not try to cause too much damage as that could lead to massive response from the United States and its allies. And the feedback begins... Ross Rustici, senior director, intelligence services, Cybereason: “Iran is currently in a precarious position, any disproportionate retaliation risks alienating the European community that is currently aligned with continued sanctions relief in exchange for IAEA inspections. Compounding that with the fact the Iran's domestic situation has degraded over the last several years a result of its intervention in the broader Middle East and its proxy war with Saudi Arabia, leaves Iran's leadership needing to be very careful with how directly it confronts the United States on this issue. In the near term Iran is most likely going to take a wait and see approach to the decertification of the deal by Trump. If sanctions are imposed on Iran and it serves to cause significant economic harm though rigorous enforcement, then Iran will probably seek to retaliate in a fashion similar to what the US experienced in 2013 with the DDoS attacks against the financial sector. Despite the Iranian cyber program maturing significantly in the past five years, they will focus on a proportional response to whatever sanctions regime is levied against them. Disruptions that cause financial loss rather that destruction is where the regime is likely to go first. Iran is only likely to use significant destructive capabilities if the situation escalates or the US expands its role in supporting Saudi Arabia. Given Iran's growth over the last five years in the cyber domain, I would expect them to at least be initially successful against civilian targets in the US should they decide to go that route. From a technical perspective they have more than enough capability to carry out successful attacks, as we have seen in the Middle East and the United States. If private sector networks are left to their own defences, Iran will have a high success rate. The thing that will reduce their operational capacity is if the US government takes a proactive and aggressive counter cyber posture and actively disrupts Iran's program before an attack is launched. While this would greatly hamper Iran's efforts it would not eliminate them completely and it would also be an escalation that could result in Iran taking more destructive measures because they have less options and control.” Priscilla Moriuchi, Director of Strategic Threat Development, Recorded Future: “President Trump’s actions have placed American businesses at increased risk for retaliatory and destructive cyber attacks by the Islamic Republic. We assess that within months, if not sooner, American companies in the financial, critical infrastructure, oil, and energy sectors will likely face aggressive and destructive cyber attacks by Iranian state-sponsored actors. Further, our research indicates that because of the need for a quick response, the Islamic Republic may utilise contractors that are less politically and ideologically reliable (and trusted) and as a result, could be more difficult to control. It is possible that this dynamic could limit the ability of the government to control the scope and scale of these destructive attacks once they are unleashed.” Phil Neray, VP of Industrial Cybersecurity, CyberX: “Cyber is an ideal mechanism for weaker adversaries like Iran because it allows them to demonstrate strength on the global stage without resorting to armed conflict. I expect that Iran will continue to escalate its cyberattacks on US targets but will keep them below the threshold that would require a kinetic response from the US. TRITON shows that Iran has the skills to launch damaging attacks on critical infrastructure. However, for now they confine these attacks to Middle Eastern targets in the same way that Russia has so far only shut down the power grid in the Ukraine. We should expect Iran to conduct phishing and cyber espionage attacks against US-based industrial and critical infrastructure firms -- as we've seen with Russian threat actors -- with the goal of establishing footholds in OT networks that could later be used for more destructive attacks.” Gen. Earl Matthews, senior vice president and chief strategy officer, Verodin: “The Iranians continue to improve and have become more sophisticated with their cyber capabilities. In my opinion, they are in the top 5 of countries with significant capabilities. We will definitely see increased cyber activity as a result of the US backing out of the nuclear agreement. Attacks not only against the US but many of our allies, especially Israel. Iran has previously attacked our financial institutions with Denial of Service and most recently penetrated a number of universities. The latest attacks represented the continued loss of intellectual property of our nation. It wouldn’t surprise me if many of these universities were specifically targeted because they are doing research and development on behalf of the US Government. Iran most certainly has the capability of launching significant attacks but I would view that probability to be low. They will continue to pursue softer targets where common means of access will be through social engineering and penetrate organizations with weak cyber hygiene. These attacks can be mitigated if organizations continuously automated and measured the validity, value, and effectiveness of their cybersecurity controls. We are well beyond the checklist compliance and thinking we are safe.” John Hultquist, Director of Intelligence Analysis, FireEye: “Iranian actors remain among the most aggressive we track, carrying out destructive and disruptive attacks in addition to stealthier acts of cyber espionage. Prior to the nuclear agreement, Iranian actors carried out several attacks against the West. There were also clear signs these actors were probing Western critical infrastructure in multiple industries for future attack. These efforts did not entirely disappear with the agreement, but they did refocus on Iran’s neighbors in the Middle East. With the dissolution of the agreement, we anticipate that Iranian cyberattacks will once again threaten Western critical infrastructure.” Sherban Naum, senior vice president for corporate strategy and technology, Bromium: “The premise that Iran can or will increase their attacks is predicated on both their existing computer network attack practices and risk tolerance to potential retaliation. The regime may see a need to show strength internally and take action. They will have to balance the time and resources dedicated to increase offensive efforts with the need to shore up defensive efforts due to the increased conflicts in the region from regional actors as well a potential retaliation by those that they attack. [...] There are three possible areas they could focus: Critical infrastructure, a doxxon like attack looking to shame those involved with the reversal decision and the third being in region actors and their weapons systems. [...] The questions to ask are what would motivate their taking action and their acceptable outcomes. Taking action, putting lives at risk could result in a kinetic response from the US and/or its allies as well as put into question Europe’s current support of the agreement. If they were to take out a power station and a hospital loses power, they lose the PR war and retaliation from the US is quite plausible. At this point, they want to show the world they are going to continue down the path of adhering to the nuclear agreement, that they are the ones targeted and have so much to lose. They would be better off influencing Europe to play into their hands as it could suit their economic needs and try to influence their own social media movement.” Robert Lee, CEO, Dragos: “ICS cyber attacks and espionage can be highly geopolitical in nature. Every time we see increased tension between states we expect to see a rise in ICS targeting, this does not mean we expect to see attacks. In this case, activity moves beyond conducting early reconnaissance to gaining access to infrastructure companies and stealing information that could be used at a later date. However simply having access to the information does not mean an attack is easy or imminent. Avoiding such tension while also defending against such aggressive efforts is the goal.” Sanjay Beri, CEO & Founder of Netskope: “While the repercussions of the United States pulling out of the Iran nuclear deal will be wide reaching, one of the first places you can expect to see a response is cyberspace. Nation-states, including Iran, have historically used cyberattacks as a low-risk, high-reward tactic for retaliating to political opposition. We saw this with North Korea in the form of the Sony hack, and Iran’s attack against US banks following Stuxnet. The U.S. needs cybersecurity leadership today more than ever if we are to stand a chance at defending the country from nation-state sponsored cyber attacks. Forming a cohesive cyber defense strategy has become nearly impossible as hundreds of departments report into a siloed set of decision makers. There’s no silver bullet, but appointing a federal CISO to oversee all of our nation’s cybersecurity initiatives and promote inter-agency collaboration would be a big step in the right direction.” Willy Leichter, Vice President of Marketing, Virsec: “It seems likely that a deteriorating relationship between the US and Iran will lead to more cyberattacks. There have been numerous reports about state-sponsored hacking groups in Iran including APT33 that have already targeted critical infrastructure in Saudi Arabia, South Korea, and the US. These hacking groups have access to advanced tools (many leaked from the NSA through the Shadow Brokers) to launch attacks that corrupt legitimate processes and memory, and have proved adept at creating multiple variants of these exploits. We need to expect ongoing cyber warfare to be the new normal, and it’s critical that all organizations take security much more seriously, improve their detection and protection capabilities, and train all employees to protect their credentials against theft.” Andrew Lloyd, President, Corero Network Security: “Given multiple reports implicating the Iranian government in the cyber-attack on the Saudi petrochemical plant, the prospect of cyber-retribution for the US withdrawal certainly exists. Also, it’s well worth remembering that even if a nation doesn't have well developed cyberwarfare resources, there’s plenty of bad actors on the global stage who are more than happy to launch attacks against the foes of anyone who’s willing to pay. Moreover, the irony is that such bad actors are able to leverage the exploits that major forces such as the US government have themselves developed and which subsequently leaked across the Dark Web’s darker commercial corners. For example, it’s well reported that groups such as the Shadow Brokers have released and brokered tools from the NSA. Also, basic and advanced DDoS-for-hire services abound, as we’ve seen in recent weeks and months. This all underscores the fact that all operators of essential services (and especially, critical national infrastructure) must up their game when it comes to DDoS defences. Ironically, today is the day that the EU NIS Directive becomes law in all 28 EU Member States.” (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats
 Less than a week after Microsoft issued a patch for CVE-2017-11882 on Nov. 14, 2017, FireEye observed an attacker using an exploit for the Microsoft Office vulnerability to target a government organization in the Middle East. We assess this activity was carried out by a suspected Iranian cyber espionage threat group, whom we refer to as APT34, using a custom PowerShell backdoor to achieve its objectives. We believe APT34 is involved in a long-term cyber espionage operation largely focused on reconnaissance efforts to benefit Iranian nation-state interests and has been operational since at least 2014. This threat group has conducted broad targeting across a variety of industries, including financial, government, energy, chemical, and telecommunications, and has largely focused its operations within the Middle East. We assess that APT34 works on behalf of the Iranian government based on infrastructure details that contain references to Iran, use of Iranian infrastructure, and targeting that aligns with nation-state interests. APT34 uses a mix of public and non-public tools, often conducting spear phishing operations using compromised accounts, sometimes coupled with social engineering tactics. In May 2016, we published a blog detailing a spear phishing campaign targeting banks in the Middle East region that used macro-enabled attachments to distribute POWBAT malware. We now attribute that campaign to APT34. In July 2017, we observed APT34 targeting a Middle East organization using a PowerShell-based backdoor that we call POWRUNER and a downloader with domain generation algorithm functionality that we call BONDUPDATER, based on strings within the malware. The backdoor was delivered via a malicious .rtf file that exploited CVE-2017-0199 . In this latest campaign, APT34 leveraged the recent Microsoft Office vulnerability CVE-2017-11882 to deploy POWRUNER and BONDUPDATER. The full report on APT34 is available to our MySIGHT customer community . APT34 loosely aligns with public reporting related to the group "OilRig" . As individual organizations may track adversaries using varied data sets, it is possible that our classifications of activity may not wholly align. CVE-2017-11882: Microsoft Office Stack Memory Corruption Vulnerability CVE-2017-11882 affects several versions of Microsoft Office and, when exploited, allows a remote user to run arbitrary code in the context of the current user as a result of improperly handling objects in memory. The vulnerability was patched by Microsoft on Nov. 14, 2017. A full proof of concept (POC) was publicly released a week later by the reporter of the vulnerability. The vulnerability exists in the old Equation Editor (EQNEDT32.EXE), a component of Microsoft Office that is used to insert and evaluate mathematical formulas. The Equation Editor is embedded in Office documents using object linking and embedding (OLE) technology. It is created as a separate process instead of child process of Office applications. If a crafted formula is passed to the Equation Editor, it does not check the data length properly while copying the data, which results in stack memory corruption. As the EQNEDT32.exe is compiled using an older compiler and does not support address space layout randomization (ASLR), a technique that guards against the exploitation of memory corruption vulnerabilities, the attacker can easily alter the flow of program execution. Analysis APT34 sent a malicious .rtf file (MD5: a0e6933f4e0497269620f44a083b2ed4) as an attachment in a malicious spear phishing email sent to the victim organization. The malicious file exploits CVE-2017-11882, which corrupts the memory on the stack and then proceeds to push the malicious data to the stack. The malware then overwrites the function address with the address of an existing instruction from EQNEDT32.EXE. The overwritten instruction (displayed in Figure 1) is used to call the “WinExec” function from kernel32.dll, as depicted in the instruction at 00430c12, which calls the “WinExec” function. Figure 1: Disassembly of overwritten function address After exploitation, the ‘WinExec’ function is successfully called to create a child process, “mshta.exe”, in the context of current logged on user. The process “mshta.exe” downloads a malicious script from hxxp://mumbai-m[.]site/b.txt and executes it, as seen in Figure 2. Figure 2: Attacker data copied to corrupt stack buffer Execution Workflow The malicious script goes through a series of steps to successfully execute and ultimately establish a connection to the command and control (C2) server. The full sequence of events starting with the exploit document is illustrated in Figure 3. Figure 3: CVE-2017-11882 and POWRUNER attack sequence The malicious .rtf file exploits CVE-2017-11882. The malware overwrites the function address with an existing instruction from EQNEDT32.EXE. The malware creates a child process, “mshta.exe,” which downloads a file from: hxxp://mumbai-m[.]site/b.txt. b.txt contains a PowerShell command to download a dropper from: hxxp://dns-update[.]club/v.txt. The PowerShell command also renames the downloaded file from v.txt to v.vbs and executes the script. The v.vbs script drops four components (hUpdateCheckers.base, dUpdateCheckers.base, cUpdateCheckers.bat, and GoogleUpdateschecker.vbs) to the directory: C:\ProgramData\Windows\Microsoft\java\ v.vbs uses CertUtil.exe, a legitimate Microsoft command-line program installed as part of Certificate Services, to decode the base64-encoded files hUpdateCheckers.base and dUpdateCheckers.base, and drop hUpdateCheckers.ps1 and dUpdateCheckers.ps1 to the staging directory. cUpdateCheckers.bat is launched and creates a scheduled task for GoogleUpdateschecker.vbs persistence. GoogleUpdateschecker.vbs is executed after sleeping for five seconds. cUpdateCheckers.bat and *.base are deleted from the staging directory. Figure 4 contains an excerpt of the v.vbs script pertaining to the Execution Workflow section. Figure 4: Execution Workflow Section of v.vbs After successful execution of the steps mentioned in the Execution Workflow section, the Task Scheduler will launch GoogleUpdateschecker.vbs every minute, which in turn executes the dUpdateCheckers.ps1 and hUpdateCheckers.ps1 scripts. These PowerShell scripts are final stage payloads – they include a downloader with domain generation algorithm (DGA) functionality and the backdoor component, which connect to the C2 server to receive commands and perform additional malicious activities. hUpdateCheckers.ps1 (POWRUNER) The backdoor component, POWRUNER, is a PowerShell script that sends and receives commands to and from the C2 server. POWRUNER is executed every minute by the Task Scheduler. Figure 5 contains an excerpt of the POWRUNER backdoor. Figure 5: POWRUNER PowerShell script hUpdateCheckers.ps1 POWRUNER begins by sending a random GET request to the C2 server and waits for a response. The server will respond with either “not_now” or a random 11-digit number. If the response is a random number, POWRUNER will send another random GET request to the server and store the response in a string. POWRUNER will then check the last digit of the stored random number response, interpret the value as a command, and perform an action based on that command. The command values and the associated actions are described in Table 1. Command Description Action 0 Server response string contains batch commands Execute batch commands and send results back to server 1 Server response string is a file path Check for file path and upload (PUT) the file to server 2 Server response string is a file path Check for file path and download (GET) the file Table 1: POWRUNER commands After successfully executing the command, POWRUNER sends the results back to the C2 server and stops execution. The C2 server can also send a PowerShell command to capture and store a screenshot of a victim’s system. POWRUNER will send the captured screenshot image file to the C2 server if the “fileupload” command is issued. Figure 6 shows the PowerShell “Get-Screenshot” function sent by the C2 server. Figure 6: Powershell Screenshot Functionality dUpdateCheckers.ps1 (BONDUPDATER) One of the recent advancements by APT34 is the use of DGA to generate subdomains. The BONDUPDATER script, which was named based on the hard-coded string “B007”, uses a custom DGA algorithm to generate subdomains for communication with the C2 server. DGA Implementation Figure 7 provides a breakdown of how an example domain (456341921300006B0C8B2CE9C9B007.mumbai-m[.]site) is generated using BONDUPDATER’s custom DGA. Figure 7: Breakdown of subdomain created by BONDUPDATER This is a randomly generated number created using the following expression: $rnd = -join (Get-Random -InputObject (10..99) -Count (%{ Get-Random -InputObject (1..6)})); This value is either 0 or 1. It is initially set to 0. If the first resolved domain IP address starts with 24.125.X.X, then it is set to 1. Initially set to 000, then incremented by 3 after every DNS request First 12 characters of system UUID. “B007” hardcoded string. Hardcoded domain “mumbai-m[.]site” BONDUPDATER will attempt to resolve the resulting DGA domain and will take the following actions based on the IP address resolution: Create a temporary file in %temp% location The file created will have the last two octets of the resolved IP addresses as its filename. BONDUPDATER will evaluate the last character of the file name and perform the corresponding action found in Table 2. Character Description 0 File contains batch commands, it executes the batch commands 1 Rename the temporary file as .ps1 extension 2 Rename the temporary file as .vbs extension Table 2: BONDUPDATER Actions Figure 8 is a screenshot of BONDUPDATER’s DGA implementation. Figure 8: Domain Generation Algorithm Some examples of the generated subdomains observed at time of execution include: 143610035BAF04425847B007.mumbai-m[.]site 835710065BAF04425847B007.mumbai-m[.]site 376110095BAF04425847B007.mumbai-m[.]site Network Communication Figure 9 shows example network communications between a POWRUNER backdoor client and server. Figure 9: Example Network Communication In the example, the POWRUNER client sends a random GET request to the C2 server and the C2 server sends the random number (99999999990) as a response. As the response is a random number that ends with ‘0’, POWRUNER sends another random GET request to receive an additional command string. The C2 server sends back Base64 encoded response. If the server had sent the string “not_now” as response, as shown in Figure 10, POWRUNER would have ceased any further requests and terminated its execution. Figure 10: Example "not now" server response Batch Commands POWRUNER may also receive batch commands from the C2 server to collect host information from the system. This may include information about the currently logged in user, the hostname, network configuration data, active connections, process information, local and domain administrator accounts, an enumeration of user directories, and other data. An example batch command is provided in Figure 11. Figure 11: Batch commands sent by POWRUNER C2 server Additional Use of POWRUNER / BONDUPDATER APT34 has used POWRUNER and BONDUPDATER to target Middle East organizations as early as July 2017. In July 2017, a FireEye Web MPS appliance detected and blocked a request to retrieve and install an APT34 POWRUNER / BONDUPDATER downloader file. During the same month, FireEye observed APT34 target a separate Middle East organization using a malicious .rtf file (MD5: 63D66D99E46FB93676A4F475A65566D8) that exploited CVE-2017-0199. This file issued a GET request to download a malicious file from: hxxp://94.23.172.164/dupdatechecker.doc. As shown in Figure 12, the script within the dupatechecker.doc file attempts to download another file named dupatechecker.exe from the same server. The file also contains a comment by the malware author that appears to be an apparent taunt to security researchers. Figure 12: Contents of dupdatechecker.doc script The dupatechecker.exe file (MD5: C9F16F0BE8C77F0170B9B6CE876ED7FB) drops both BONDUPDATER and POWRUNER. These files connect to proxychecker[.]pro for C2. Outlook and Implications Recent activity by APT34 demonstrates that they are capable group with potential access to their own development resources. During the past few months, APT34 has been able to quickly incorporate exploits for at least two publicly vulnerabilities (CVE-2017-0199 and CVE-2017-11882) to target organizations in the Middle East. We assess that APT34’s efforts to continuously update their malware, including the incorporation of DGA for C2, demonstrate the group’s commitment to pursing strategies to deter detection. We expect APT34 will continue to evolve their malware and tactics as they continue to pursue access to entities in the Middle East region. IOCs Filename / Domain / IP Address MD5 Hash or Description CVE-2017-11882 exploit document A0E6933F4E0497269620F44A083B2ED4 b.txt 9267D057C065EA7448ACA1511C6F29C7 v.txt/v.vbs B2D13A336A3EB7BD27612BE7D4E334DF dUpdateCheckers.base 4A7290A279E6F2329EDD0615178A11FF hUpdateCheckers.base 841CE6475F271F86D0B5188E4F8BC6DB cUpdateCheckers.bat 52CA9A7424B3CC34099AD218623A0979 dUpdateCheckers.ps1 BBDE33F5709CB1452AB941C08ACC775E hUpdateCheckers.ps1 247B2A9FCBA6E9EC29ED818948939702 GoogleUpdateschecker.vbs C87B0B711F60132235D7440ADD0360B0 hxxp://mumbai-m[.]site POWRUNER C2 hxxp://dns-update[.]club Malware Staging Server CVE-2017-0199 exploit document 63D66D99E46FB93676A4F475A65566D8 94.23.172.164:80 Malware Staging Server dupdatechecker.doc D85818E82A6E64CA185EDFDDBA2D1B76 dupdatechecker.exe C9F16F0BE8C77F0170B9B6CE876ED7FB proxycheker[.]pro C2 46.105.221.247 Has resolved mumbai-m[.]site & hpserver[.]online 148.251.55.110 Has resolved mumbai-m[.]site and dns-update[.]club 185.15.247.147 Has resolved dns-update[.]club 145.239.33.100 Has resolved dns-update[.]club 82.102.14.219 Has resolved ns2.dns-update[.]club & hpserver[.]online & anyportals[.]com v7-hpserver.online.hta E6AC6F18256C4DDE5BF06A9191562F82 dUpdateCheckers.base 3C63BFF9EC0A340E0727E5683466F435 hUpdateCheckers.base EEB0FF0D8841C2EBE643FE328B6D9EF5 cUpdateCheckers.bat FB464C365B94B03826E67EABE4BF9165 dUpdateCheckers.ps1 635ED85BFCAAB7208A8B5C730D3D0A8C hUpdateCheckers.ps1 13B338C47C52DE3ED0B68E1CB7876AD2 googleupdateschecker.vbs DBFEA6154D4F9D7209C1875B2D5D70D5 hpserver[.]online C2 v7-anyportals.hta EAF3448808481FB1FDBB675BC5EA24DE dUpdateCheckers.base 42449DD79EA7D2B5B6482B6F0D493498 hUpdateCheckers.base A3FCB4D23C3153DD42AC124B112F1BAE dUpdateCheckers.ps1 EE1C482C41738AAA5964730DCBAB5DFF hUpdateCheckers.ps1 E516C3A3247AF2F2323291A670086A8F anyportals[.]com C2
 Iranian Cyberspies Exploit Recently Patched Office Flaw A cyber espionage group linked to Iran has been using a recently patched Microsoft Office vulnerability to deliver malware to targeted organizations, FireEye reported on Thursday. The threat actor, tracked as APT34 by FireEye and OilRig by other companies, has been active since at least 2014, targeting organizations in the financial, government, energy, telecoms and chemical sectors, particularly in the Middle East. Back in April, researchers noticed that APT34 had started exploiting an Office vulnerability (CVE-2017-0199) in attacks aimed at Israeli organizations shortly after Microsoft released a patch. The cyberspies have now also started leveraging CVE-2017-11882, an Office vulnerability patched by Microsoft on November 14. FireEye said it had spotted an attack exploiting this flaw less than a week after the fix was released. The remote code execution vulnerability affects the Equation Editor (EQNEDT32.EXE) component of Office and it has been around for 17 years. Some believe Microsoft may have addressed the security hole by directly modifying the executable, suggesting that the company may have lost its source code. Proof-of-concept (PoC) exploits were made available for CVE-2017-11882 shortly after Microsoft released a patch and, in late November, researchers reported that a cybercrime group tracked as Cobalt had started exploiting the vulnerability. However, FireEye saw the first attempt to exploit CVE-2017-11882 less than a week after Microsoft released a fix. The attack was aimed at a government organization in the Middle East. In July 2017, FireEye observed an APT34 attack using CVE-2017-0199 to deliver a backdoor tracked by the company as POWRUNER, and a downloader with DGA (domain generation algorithm) functionality named BONDUPDATER. In November, the group switched to using CVE-2017-11882 to deliver these PowerShell-based pieces of malware. The attackers used specially crafted RTF documents delivered to targeted users via spear phishing emails. When opened, the file triggers the Office vulnerability and initiates an infection process that ends with the execution of the backdoor and the downloader. POWRUNER allows attackers to collect information about the infected machine, download and upload files, and capture screenshots. Once it receives commands from its command and control (C&C) server, the malware stops running. The BONDUPDATER downloader is APT34’s first attempt at implementing a DGA for generating subdomains that are used for C&C communications. “We assess that APT34’s efforts to continuously update their malware, including the incorporation of DGA for C2, demonstrate the group’s commitment to pursuing strategies to deter detection,” FireEye said in a blog post. “We expect APT34 will continue to evolve their malware and tactics as they continue to pursue access to entities in the Middle East region.” This is not the first time FireEye has analyzed APT34’s activities. In May 2016, the security firm published a report detailing some of its attacks on banks in the Middle East, but at the time it did not attribute the operation to any group. Palo Alto Networks reported in October that OilRig had started using a new Trojan in attacks aimed at entities in the Middle East. Related: HBO Hacker Linked to Iranian Spy Group (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware Vulnerabilities
 Iranian Hackers Use QUADAGENT Backdoor in Recent Attacks A series of recent attacks attributed to an Iran-linked cyber-espionage group delivered a PowerShell backdoor onto compromised machines, Palo Alto Networks has discovered. The attacks, observed between May and June 2018, were attributed to the OilRig group, which is also known as APT34 and Helix Kitten. Active since around 2015, the actor was seen using two new backdoors (RGDoor and OopsIE) earlier this year, as well as a new data exfiltration technique. Aimed at a technology services provider and a government entity in the Middle East, the new attacks were “made to appear to have originated from other entities in the same country” and employed the QUADAGENT backdoor, Palo Alto Networks reveals. Both the backdoor and other attack artifacts have been previously associated with the OilRig group. The samples were nearly identical to each other, but featured different command and control (C&C) servers and randomized obfuscation (performed with the open-source toolkit called Invoke-Obfuscation). Between May and June, the actor launched three attacks, each involving a spear phishing email appearing to originate from a government agency based in the Middle East. The account was likely compromised via credential theft. The first two attack waves (aimed at a technology services provider) targeted email addresses that weren’t easily discoverable via search engines. The emails contained an attached exe file (converted from .bat) that was designed to install the QUADAGENT backdoor and execute it. The dropper would run silently, would download the backdoor, create a scheduled task for persistency, and then execute the payload. The malware used rdppath[.]com as the C&C and would attempt to connect to it via HTTPS, then HTTP, then via DNS tunneling. The third wave (against the government entity) also used a simple PE file attachment, but compiled using the Microsoft .NET Framework instead of being converted. The victim was served a fake error box when executing the malware, in an attempt to reduce suspicion. Once dropped and executed, the backdoor would connect to the C&C at cpuproc[.]com. A third sample collected by Palo Alto Networks did not use a PE attachment but relied on a Word document containing a malicious macro for delivery. The document displayed a decoy image and asked the user to enable content, but did not use additional decoy content after execution. The use of Word documents as a delivery mechanism has been associated with the threat actor before, and the delivery of QUADAGENT in this manner was previously documented by ClearSky Cyber Security. The sample ClearSky analyzed appears identical with the one used in the attacks against the technology services provider, Palo Alto Networks says. “While [OilRig’s] delivery techniques are fairly simple, the various tools we have attributed as part of their arsenal reveal sophistication. In this instance, they illustrated a typical behavior of adversary groups, wherein the same tool was reused in multiple attacks, but each had enough modifications via infrastructure change, additional obfuscation, and repackaging that each sample may appear different enough to bypass security controls,” the security firm concludes. Related: Iranian Cyberspies Exploit Recently Patched Office Flaw Related: Iranian Hackers Target IIS Web Servers With New Backdoor (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
 Iranian Hackers Impersonate Israeli Security Firm A group of Iranian hackers focused on cyber-espionage recently built up a website to impersonate ClearSky Cyber Security, the Israeli firm that exposed their activities not long ago. The hackers, tracked as APT35 and also known as NewsBeef, Newscaster, and Charming Kitten, have been active since at least 2011, with their activities detailed for the first time several years ago. In December 2017, ClearSky Cyber Security published a report detailing the group’s activities during the 2016-2017 timeframe. The security firm not only described the actor’s infrastructure, but also provided information on DownPaper, a new piece of malware the hackers had been using. The security firm exposed the link between the group and Behzad Mesri, also known as Skote Vahshat, who was charged in November 2017 with the hacking of HBO. Furthermore, the researchers also managed to establish the identity of two other alleged members of the group. Roughly half a year after the report was published, the security firm announced on its Twitter account that the hackers built their own site impersonating ClearSky. “#CharmingKitten built a phishing website impersonating our company. The fake website is clearskysecurity\.net (the real website is http://clearskysec.com),” the security firm announced. The advanced persistent threat (APT) apparently copied entire pages from the legitimate website, but also changed one of them to include a sign in option with multiple services. Anyone entering credentials there would have had them sent to the actor instead. “These sign in options are all phishing pages that would send the victim's credentials to the attackers. Our legitimate website does not have any sign in option. It seems that the impersonating website is still being built because some of the pages have error messages in them,” the security firm announced. One of the pages on the fake website, the security researchers discovered, featured content related to a Charming Kitten campaign that ClearSky exposed only several weeks ago. That page, however, wasn’t customized to look like the security firm’s website. The fake website started being flagged as deceptive soon after ClearSky discovered it. The security firm says that its employees, services, and customers were not affected. Over the past years, security researchers managed to link various hacking groups to Iran, including APT33, Rocket Kitten, Magic Hound, and CopyKittens, and even revealed that they tend to share infrastructure and malware code. Related: HBO Hacker Linked to Iranian Spy Group Related: Iranian Cyberspies Use New Trojan in Middle East Attacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Cybercrime
 Iran-Linked Influence Campaign Targets US, Others Threat actors apparently working out of Iran have been conducting an operation whose goal is to influence the opinions of people in the United States and other countries around the world, FireEye reported on Tuesday. This campaign, which the cybersecurity firm describes as an “influence operation,” involves a network of “inauthentic” news websites and clusters of social media accounts whose apparent purpose is to “promote political narratives in line with Iranian interests.” The sites that FireEye calls “inauthentic” make an effort to hide their origins and affiliations, and rely on fake social media personas to promote content. This content is either original, copied from other sources, or taken from other sources and modified. The campaign, which has been active since at least 2017, focuses on anti-Israel, anti-Saudi, and pro-Palestine topics. The threat actor behind the operation has also distributed stories regarding U.S. policies that are favorable to Iran, including the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action nuclear deal. In addition to the United States, the group’s targets include the United Kingdom, Latin America and the Middle East. FireEye researchers have found several pieces of evidence suggesting that Iran is behind the operation. This includes domains registered with email addresses associated with Iranian organizations, Twitter accounts registered with phone numbers with Iran’s +98 country code, and online personas promoting Iranian holidays. However, the company says it’s only “moderately confident” that Iran is behind the activity, mainly due to the fact that this is an influence operation, which are meant to be deceptive. The cybersecurity firm noted that the Iran-linked threat actor tracked as APT35, NewsBeef, Newscaster and Charming Kitten has also leveraged these types of inauthentic news sites and social media personas in its cyber espionage operations, but there is no evidence that this influence campaign has been conducted by APT35. “The activity we have uncovered is significant and demonstrates that actors beyond Russia continue to engage in online, social media-driven influence operations as a means of shaping political discourse,” said Lee Foster, Manager of Information Operations Analysis at FireEye. “It also illustrates how the threat posed by such influence operations continues to evolve, and how similar influence tactics can be deployed irrespective of the particular political or ideological goals being pursued.” FireEye is preparing a report containing technical details on the operation. The report will be shared on request. Related: US Braces for Possible Cyberattacks After Iran Sanctions Related: Iran-linked Hackers Adopt New Data Exfiltration Methods Related: Iran-Linked 'Leafminer' Espionage Campaign Targets Middle East (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Fraud & Identity Theft
 Breaches Increasingly Discovered Internally: Mandiant Organizations are getting increasingly better at discovering data breaches on their own, with more than 60% of intrusions in 2017 detected internally, according to FireEye-owned Mandiant. The company’s M-Trends report for 2018 shows that the global median time for internal detection dropped to 57.5 days in 2017, compared to 80 days in the previous year. Of the total number of breaches investigated by Mandiant last year, 62% were discovered internally, up from 53% in 2016. On the other hand, it still took roughly the same amount of time for organizations to learn that their systems had been compromised. The global median dwell time in 2017 – the median time from the first evidence of a hack to detection – was 101 days, compared to 99 days in 2016. Companies in the Americas had the shortest median dwell time (75.5 days), while organizations in the APAC region had the longest dwell time (nearly 500 days). Data collected by Mandiant in 2013 showed that more than one-third of organizations had been attacked again after the initial incident had been remediated. More recent data, specifically from the past 19 months, showed that 56% of Mandiant customers were targeted again by either the same group or one with similar motivation. In cases where investigators discovered at least one type of significant activity (e.g. compromised accounts, data theft, lateral movement), the targeted organization was successfully attacked again within one year. Organizations that experienced more than one type of significant activity were attacked by more than one threat actor. Again, the highest percentage of companies attacked multiple times and by multiple threat groups was in the APAC region – more than double compared to the Americas and the EMEA region. When it comes to the most targeted industries, companies in the financial and high-tech sectors recorded the highest number of significant attacks, while the high-tech, telecommunications and education sectors were hit by the highest number of different hacker groups. Last year, FireEye assigned names to four state-sponsored threat groups, including the Vietnam-linked APT32 (OceanLotus), and the Iran-linked APT33, APT34 (OilRig), and APT35 (NewsBeef, Newscaster and Charming Kitten). “Iran-sponsored threat actors have compromised a variety of organizations, but recently they have expanded their efforts in a way that previously seemed beyond their grasp,” Mandiant said in its report. “Today they leverage strategic web compromises (SWC) to ensnare more victims, and concurrently maintain persistence across multiple organizations for months and sometimes years. Rather than relying on publicly available malware and utilities, they develop and deploy custom malware. When they are not carrying out destructive attacks against their targets, they are conducting espionage and stealing data like professionals.” Related: Organizations Getting Better at Detecting Breaches Related: Financial Attackers as Sophisticated as Nation-State Groups (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Incident Response Cybercrime Management & Strategy
 On Feb. 2, 2018, we published a blog detailing the use of an Adobe Flash zero-day vulnerability (CVE-2018-4878) by a suspected North Korean cyber espionage group that we now track as APT37 (Reaper). Our analysis of APT37’s recent activity reveals that the group’s operations are expanding in scope and sophistication, with a toolset that includes access to zero-day vulnerabilities and wiper malware. We assess with high confidence that this activity is carried out on behalf of the North Korean government given malware development artifacts and targeting that aligns with North Korean state interests. FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence believes that APT37 is aligned with the activity publicly reported as Scarcruft and Group123 . Read our report, APT37 (Reaper): The Overlooked North Korean Actor , to learn more about our assessment that this threat actor is working on behalf of the North Korean government, as well as various other details about their operations: Targeting: Primarily South Korea – though also Japan, Vietnam and the Middle East – in various industry verticals, including chemicals, electronics, manufacturing, aerospace, automotive, and healthcare. Initial Infection Tactics: Social engineering tactics tailored specifically to desired targets, strategic web compromises typical of targeted cyber espionage operations, and the use of torrent file-sharing sites to distribute malware more indiscriminately. Exploited Vulnerabilities: Frequent exploitation of vulnerabilities in Hangul Word Processor (HWP), as well as Adobe Flash. The group has demonstrated access to zero-day vulnerabilities (CVE-2018-0802), and the ability to incorporate them into operations. Command and Control Infrastructure: Compromised servers, messaging platforms, and cloud service providers to avoid detection. The group has shown increasing sophistication by improving their operational security over time. Malware: A diverse suite of malware for initial intrusion and exfiltration. Along with custom malware used for espionage purposes, APT37 also has access to destructive malware. More information on this threat actor is found in our report, APT37 (Reaper): The Overlooked North Korean Actor . You can also register for our upcoming webinar for additional insights into this group.
 North Korean Hacking Group APT37 Expands Targets A lesser known hacker group believed to be working on behalf of the North Korean government has been expanding the scope and sophistication of its campaigns, according to a report published on Tuesday by FireEye. The threat actor is tracked by FireEye as APT37 and Reaper, and by other security firms as Group123 (Cisco) and ScarCruft (Kaspersky). APT37 has been active since at least 2012, but it has not been analyzed as much as the North Korea-linked Lazarus group, which is said to be responsible for high-profile attacks targeting Sony and financial organizations worldwide. Cisco published a report in January detailing some of the campaigns launched by the threat actor in 2017, but APT37 only started making headlines in early February when researchers revealed that it had been using a zero-day vulnerability in Adobe Flash Player to deliver malware to South Korean users. APT37, whose goals appear to align with North Korea’s military, political and economic interests, has mainly focused on targeting public and private entities in South Korea, including government, defense, military and media organizations. However, according to FireEye, the group expanded its attacks to Japan, Vietnam and even the Middle East last year. The list of targets includes organizations in the chemicals, manufacturing, electronics, aerospace, healthcare, and automotive sectors. One of the targets in the Middle East was a telecommunications services provider that had entered an agreement with the North Korean government. The deal fell through, which is when APT37 started hacking the Middle Eastern company, likely in an effort to collect information, FireEye said. APT37 has exploited several Flash Player and Hangul Word Processor vulnerabilities to deliver various types of malware, including the RUHAPPY wiper, the CORALDECK exfiltration tool, the GELCAPSULE and HAPPYWORK downloaders, the MILKDROP and SLOWDRIFT launchers, the ZUMKONG infostealer, the audio-capturing tool SOUNDWAVE, and backdoors tracked by FireEye as DOGCALL, KARAE, POORAIM, WINERACK and SHUTTERSPEED. This malware has been delivered using social engineering tactics, watering holes, and even torrent sites for wide-scale distribution. FireEye is highly confident that APT37 is linked to the North Korean government based on several pieces of evidence, including the use of a North Korean IP, malware compilation timestamps consistent with a typical workday in North Korea, and objectives that align with Pyongyang’s interests. “North Korea has repeatedly demonstrated a willingness to leverage its cyber capabilities for a variety of purposes, undeterred by notional redlines and international norms,” FireEye said in its report. “Though they have primarily tapped other tracked suspected North Korean teams to carry out the most aggressive actions, APT37 is an additional tool available to the regime, perhaps even desirable for its relative obscurity. We anticipate APT37 will be leveraged more and more in previously unfamiliar roles and regions, especially as pressure mounts on their sponsor.” Neither Kaspersky nor Cisco have explicitly attributed the APT37 attacks to North Korea. Related: Attribution Hell - Cyberspies Hacking Other Cyberspies (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
 Researchers Link New Android Backdoor to North Korean Hackers The recently discovered KevDroid Android backdoor is tied to the North Korean hacking group APT37, Palo Alto Networks researchers say. Also tracked as Reaper, Group 123, Red Eyes, and ScarCruft, the threat group was observed earlier this year to be using a Flash Player zero-day vulnerability and has been expanding the scope and sophistication of its campaigns over the past months. Recently, the group was said to have targeted victims with Android spyware via spear phishing emails. Cisco’s Talos security researchers analyzed the malware, which they called KevDroid, but weren’t able to find a strong connection with the group. According to Palo Alto Networks, however, KevDroid is indeed part of APT37’s arsenal of mobile tools. Furthermore, the security researchers were able to find a more advanced version of the spyware, as well as Trojanized iterations of legitimate applications that are used as downloaders for the malware. The Android spyware was initially found to be masquerading as an anti-virus app from Naver, a large search and web portal service provider in South Korea. One version of the malware, Palo Alto’s Ruchna Nigam discovered, would call home to cgalim[.]com, a domain already associated with the Reaper group’s non-mobile attacks. Artefacts from the original malware variant eventually revealed a more advanced iteration of the malware, the security researcher notes. The threat actor apparently uses two Trojanized application versions to distribute Android spyware variants. The legitimate applications – Bitcoin Ticker Widget and PyeongChang Winter Games – are distributed through Google Play, but the malicious variants never made it to the official app store. The two Trojanized applications, which are signed with the same certificate, contact the same URL to fetch payloads, and were observed serving an advanced iteration of the Android spyware. Each of the malicious apps was created to “respectively download and drop one specific variant of Reaper’s Android spyware,” the Nigam says. Once installed, the apps would display a message asking the user to update them. If the user accepts the update, however, the malicious payload is downloaded instead and saved as AppName.apk. Next, the payload is loaded and the user is asked to confirm the installation. The spyware can record audio and video, capture screenshots, grab the phone’s file listing, fetch specific files, download a list of commands, get device info, and root the device. Additionally, it can steal voice recordings from incoming and outgoing calls, call logs, SMS history, contact lists, and information on registered accounts on the phone. Unlike the previously detailed variants of the malware that used an open source library to record calls, the most recent – and more advanced – variant of the malware writes its own call recording library. “The emergence of a new attack vector, followed by the appearance of new variants disguising themselves as currently relevant applications like the Winter Olympics, indicates expanding operations of the Reaper group that are actively in development,” Nigam concludes. Related: New KevDroid Android Backdoor Discovered Related: North Korean Hacking Group APT37 Expands Targets (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare Mobile Security NEWS & INDUSTRY
 North Korea Cyber Threat 'More Aggressive Than China': US Firm North Korean hackers are becoming more aggressive than their Chinese counterparts, a leading US cybersecurity firm warned Tuesday, as it identified a Pyongyang-linked group as an "advanced persistent threat". It was the first time that FireEye had used the designation for a North Korean-based group. Analysts say the isolated and impoverished but nuclear-armed North has stepped up hacking operations partly to raise money for the cash-strapped regime, which is subject to multiple sanctions over its atomic weapons and ballistic missile programs. North Korea has previously been blamed for the WannaCry ransomware that briefly wreaked havoc around the world last year -- an accusation it angrily denies. FireEye said North Korean operatives had expanded their targets beyond South Korea and mounted increasingly sophisticated attacks, adding it had identified a suspected North Korean cyberespionage group it dubbed "APT37" -- standing for "advanced persistent threat". APT37 was "primarily based in North Korea", it said, and its choice of targets "aligns with North Korean state interests". "We assess with high confidence that this activity is carried out on behalf of the North Korean government," it added. APT37 has been active at least since 2012, it said, previously focused on "government, military, defence industrial base and media sector" in the rival South before widening its range to include Japan, Vietnam and the Middle East last year, and industries ranging from chemicals to telecommunications. "This group should be taken seriously," FireEye added. FireEye's first APT was identified in a 2013 report by company division Mandiant, which said that hackers penetrating US newspapers, government agencies and companies "are based primarily in China and that the Chinese government is aware of them". One group, it said then, was believed to be a branch of the People's Liberation Army in Shanghai called Unit 61398. Five of its members were later indicted by US federal prosecutors on charges of stealing information from US firms, provoking a diplomatic row between Washington and Beijing. "We have seen both North Korean and Chinese operations range from simplistic to very technically sophisticated," FireEye's director of intelligence analysis John Hultquist told AFP. "The sharpest difference between the two really lies in the aggressive nature of North Korean operations," he added. "Whereas Chinese actors have typically favoured quiet espionage, North Korea has demonstrated a willingness to carry out some very aggressive activity, ranging from attack to outright global crime." But the WannaCry ransomware, he believes, was the work of a different North Korean group. "Thus far, we have only found APT37 doing the quiet espionage but they are a tool the regime can use aggressively." The North is known to operate an army of thousands of well-trained hackers that have attacked South Korean firms, institutions and even rights groups helping North Korean refugees. Its cyberwarfare abilities first came to prominence when it was accused of hacking into Sony Pictures Entertainment to take revenge for "The Interview," a satirical film that mocked its leader Kim Jong Un. More recently, according to analysts, the North's hackers have stepped up campaigns to raise funds by attacking cryptocurrency exchanges as the value of bitcoin and other cybercurrencies soared. (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet © AFP 2018Previous Columns by AFP:Top Australia Defence Firm Reports Serious Cyber BreachUS Accuses China, Taiwan Firms With Stealing Secrets From Chip Giant MicronU.S. Intel Budget Soars Under TrumpIBM to Acquire Open Source Giant Red Hat for $34 BillionBA Says 185,000 More Customers Affected in Cyber Attack 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY
 North Korean Hacking Group APT37 Expands Targets A lesser known hacker group believed to be working on behalf of the North Korean government has been expanding the scope and sophistication of its campaigns, according to a report published on Tuesday by FireEye. The threat actor is tracked by FireEye as APT37 and Reaper, and by other security firms as Group123 (Cisco) and ScarCruft (Kaspersky). APT37 has been active since at least 2012, but it has not been analyzed as much as the North Korea-linked Lazarus group, which is said to be responsible for high-profile attacks targeting Sony and financial organizations worldwide. Cisco published a report in January detailing some of the campaigns launched by the threat actor in 2017, but APT37 only started making headlines in early February when researchers revealed that it had been using a zero-day vulnerability in Adobe Flash Player to deliver malware to South Korean users. APT37, whose goals appear to align with North Korea’s military, political and economic interests, has mainly focused on targeting public and private entities in South Korea, including government, defense, military and media organizations. However, according to FireEye, the group expanded its attacks to Japan, Vietnam and even the Middle East last year. The list of targets includes organizations in the chemicals, manufacturing, electronics, aerospace, healthcare, and automotive sectors. One of the targets in the Middle East was a telecommunications services provider that had entered an agreement with the North Korean government. The deal fell through, which is when APT37 started hacking the Middle Eastern company, likely in an effort to collect information, FireEye said. APT37 has exploited several Flash Player and Hangul Word Processor vulnerabilities to deliver various types of malware, including the RUHAPPY wiper, the CORALDECK exfiltration tool, the GELCAPSULE and HAPPYWORK downloaders, the MILKDROP and SLOWDRIFT launchers, the ZUMKONG infostealer, the audio-capturing tool SOUNDWAVE, and backdoors tracked by FireEye as DOGCALL, KARAE, POORAIM, WINERACK and SHUTTERSPEED. This malware has been delivered using social engineering tactics, watering holes, and even torrent sites for wide-scale distribution. FireEye is highly confident that APT37 is linked to the North Korean government based on several pieces of evidence, including the use of a North Korean IP, malware compilation timestamps consistent with a typical workday in North Korea, and objectives that align with Pyongyang’s interests. “North Korea has repeatedly demonstrated a willingness to leverage its cyber capabilities for a variety of purposes, undeterred by notional redlines and international norms,” FireEye said in its report. “Though they have primarily tapped other tracked suspected North Korean teams to carry out the most aggressive actions, APT37 is an additional tool available to the regime, perhaps even desirable for its relative obscurity. We anticipate APT37 will be leveraged more and more in previously unfamiliar roles and regions, especially as pressure mounts on their sponsor.” Neither Kaspersky nor Cisco have explicitly attributed the APT37 attacks to North Korea. Related: Attribution Hell - Cyberspies Hacking Other Cyberspies (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware
 North Korea's Flash Player Flaw Now Exploited by Cybercriminals Endpoint security firm Morphisec has spotted a massive campaign that exploits a recently patched Adobe Flash Player vulnerability to deliver malware. The flaw in question, CVE-2018-4878, is a use-after-free bug that Adobe patched on February 6, following reports that North Korean hackers had been exploiting the vulnerability in attacks aimed at South Korea. The threat group, tracked as APT37, Reaper, Group123 and ScarCruft, has been expanding the scope and sophistication of its campaigns. After Adobe patched the security hole, which allows remote code execution, other malicious actors started looking into ways to exploit CVE-2018-4878. Morphisec said it spotted a campaign on February 22, which had been using a version of the exploit similar to the one developed by APT37. However, researchers pointed out that the exploit in the malspam campaign, unlike the one used in the original attacks, did not have a 64-bit version. The attack starts with a spam email containing a link to a document stored on safe-storage[.]biz. Once downloaded and opened, the document informs users that an online preview is not available and instructs them to enable editing mode in order to view the content. If users comply, the Flash vulnerability is exploited and the Windows command prompt is executed. The associated cmd.exe file is then injected with malicious shellcode that connects to the attacker’s domain. A DLL file is then downloaded by the shellcode and executed using the Microsoft Register Server (regsvr32) utility. The legitimate tool is abused in an effort to bypass whitelisting products. The malicious documents and the Flash exploit were only detected by a few security solutions based on their signature at the time of Morphisec’s analysis. Since the URLs included in the spam emails were created using Google’s URL shortening service, researchers determined that each of the different links delivered in this campaign had been clicked tens and even hundreds of times within 3-4 days of being created. Users clicked on the links from various browsers and email services, including Outlook, Gmail and Aruba.it. “As expected and predicted, adversaries have quickly adopted the Flash exploit, which is easily reproducible,” Morphisec’s Michael Gorelik explained in a blog post. “With small variations to the attack, they successfully launched a massive malspam campaign and bypassed most of the existing static scanning solutions once again.” Related: Russian Hackers Exploit Recently Patched Flash Vulnerability Related: Middle East Group Uses Flash Zero-Day to Deliver Spyware (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Virus & Malware Malware Vulnerabilities Cybercrime
 Researchers Say Code Reuse Links North Korea's Malware Following trails of reused code, security researchers at Intezer and McAfee have uncovered new links between malware families attributed to North Korean threat groups and tracked most of the samples to the infamous Lazarus Group. Code reuse isn’t novel, and many cases where cybercriminals and threat actors employed this technique have been already reported on. In fact, actors operating from the same country have been often observed sharing malware code and infrastructure, which often makes attribution highly problematic. For security researchers, the reuse of code between different malware families and variations and between one campaign to another means that they can gain insight into the activities of threat actors, and this is exactly what Intezer and McAfee focused on in their recent analysis. The multiple cyber campaigns attributed to North Korean hackers have been so far focused on two different directions: to raise money or pursue nationalist aims. Thus there’s a workforce of hackers that focuses on cybercrime activities such as hacking into financial institutions (Unit 180) and another to gather intelligence from other nations and to try to disrupt rival states and military targets (Unit 121). The researchers focused on the latter and discovered “many overlaps in code reuse,” which led them to the conclusion that nation-state sponsored groups were active in those efforts. After analyzing thousands of malware samples, many unclassified or uncategorized, the researchers noticed a “significant amount of code similarities between almost every one of the attacks associated with North Korea.” One similarity was found in the server message block (SMB) module of WannaCry (2017), Mydoom (2009), Joanap, and DeltaAlfa. The use of these malware families has been already attributed to the Lazarus Group, which is tracked by the U.S. government as Hidden Cobra. Believed to have orchestrated the $81 million heist from the Bangladesh bank, and seen as the most serious threat to banks, the group is also said to have launched campaigns such as Operation Blockbuster, Dark Seoul, and Operation Troy. The researchers also noticed a similarity between three different remote access Trojans, namely NavRAT, Gold Dragon, and a DLL from the South Korean gambling hacking campaign, all three believed to be affiliated with Group 123 (also tracked as Reaper, APT37, and ScarCruft). There’s also a connection between the Brambul malware (2009) and KorDllBot (2011), based on code responsible for launching a cmd.exe with a net share. Both malware families are attributed to Lazarus. The security researchers also discovered a connection between the Tapaoux (or DarkHotel) malware family and samples from Operation Troy. The code reuse and sharing between various threat groups known to be affiliated with North Korea has revealed that most malware families link back to Lazarus. The only malware that stands apart are the RATs attributed to Group 123, which are linked to one another. “The malware attributed to the group Lazarus has code connections that link many of the malware families spotted over the years. Lazarus is a collective name for many DPRK cyber operations, and we clearly see links between malware families used in different campaigns,” the security researchers note. On Thursday, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) warned of a new malware variant dubbed KEYMARBLE, which the U.S. government has attributed to malicious cyber activity by the North Korean government. DHS says the malware is a Remote Access Trojan (RAT) capable of accessing device configuration data, downloading additional files, executing commands, modifying the registry, capturing screenshots, and exfiltrating data. More details on KEYMARBLE are available from the malware report (AR18-221A) from the DHS. Related: DHS, FBI Share Details of North Korea's 'Typeframe' Malware Related: U.S. Attributes Two More Malware Families to North Korea (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Ionut Arghire is an international correspondent for SecurityWeek. Previous Columns by Ionut Arghire:‘DemonBot' Botnet Targets Hadoop ServersLogical Bug in Microsoft Word's 'Online Video' Allows Code ExecutionSOC-as-a-Service Firm Arctic Wolf Networks Raises $45 MillionMultiple Vulnerabilities Patched in ASRock Drivers'TimpDoor' Malware Turns Android Devices into Proxies 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] sponsored links Tags: NEWS & INDUSTRY Malware
 Today, we are releasing details on the threat group that we believe is responsible for conducting financial crime on behalf of the North Korean regime, stealing millions of dollars from banks worldwide. The group is particularly aggressive; they regularly use destructive malware to render victim networks inoperable following theft. More importantly, diplomatic efforts, including the recent Department of Justice (DOJ) complaint that outlined attribution to North Korea, have thus far failed to put an end to their activity. We are calling this group APT38. We are releasing a special report, APT38: Un-usual Suspects , to expose the methods used by this active and serious threat, and to complement earlier efforts by others to expose these operations, using FireEye’s unique insight into the attacker lifecycle. We believe APT38’s financial motivation, unique toolset, and tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) observed during their carefully executed operations are distinct enough to be tracked separately from other North Korean cyber activity. There are many overlapping characteristics with other operations, known as “Lazarus” and the actor we call TEMP.Hermit ; however, we believe separating this group will provide defenders with a more focused understanding of the adversary and allow them to prioritize resources and enable defense. The following are some of the ways APT38 is different from other North Korean actors, and some of the ways they are similar: We find there are clear distinctions between APT38 activity and the activity of other North Korean actors, including the actor we call TEMP.Hermit. Our investigation indicates they are disparate operations against different targets and reliance on distinct TTPs; however, the malware tools being used either overlap or exhibit shared characteristics, indicating a shared developer or access to the same code repositories. As evident in the DOJ complaint, there are other shared resources, such as personnel who may be assisting multiple efforts. A 2016 Novetta report detailed the work of security vendors attempting to unveil tools and infrastructure related to the 2014 destructive attack against Sony Pictures Entertainment. This report detailed malware and TTPs related to a set of developers and operators they dubbed “Lazarus,” a name that has become synonymous with aggressive North Korean cyber operations. Since then, public reporting attributed additional activity to the “Lazarus” group with varying levels of confidence primarily based on malware similarities being leveraged in identified operations. Over time, these malware similarities diverged, as did targeting, intended outcomes and TTPs, almost certainly indicating that this activity is made up of multiple operational groups primarily linked together with shared malware development resources and North Korean state sponsorship. Since at least 2014, APT38 has conducted operations in more than 16 organizations in at least 13 countries, sometimes simultaneously, indicating that the group is a large, prolific operation with extensive resources. The following are some details about APT38 targeting: The total number of organizations targeted by APT38 may be even higher when considering the probable low incident reporting rate from affected organizations. APT38 is characterized by long planning, extended periods of access to compromised victim environments preceding any attempts to steal money, fluency across mixed operating system environments, the use of custom developed tools, and a constant effort to thwart investigations capped with a willingness to completely destroy compromised machines afterwards. The group is careful, calculated, and has demonstrated a desire to maintain access to a victim environment for as long as necessary to understand the network layout, required permissions, and system technologies to achieve its goals. On average, we have observed APT38 remain within a victim network for approximately 155 days, with the longest time within a compromised environment believed to be almost two years. In just the publicly reported heists alone, APT38 has attempted to steal over $1.1 billion dollars from financial institutions. Investigating intrusions of many victimized organizations has provided us with a unique perspective into APT38’s entire attack lifecycle. Figure 1 contains a breakdown of observed malware families used by APT38 during the different stages of their operations. At a high-level, their targeting of financial organizations and subsequent heists have followed the same general pattern: Information Gathering : Conducted research into an organization’s personnel and targeted third party vendors with likely access to SWIFT transaction systems to understand the mechanics of SWIFT transactions on victim networks (Please note: The systems in question are those used by the victim to conduct SWIFT transactions. At no point did we observe these actors breach the integrity of the SWIFT system itself.). Initial Compromise : Relied on watering holes and exploited an insecure out-of-date version of Apache Struts2 to execute code on a system. Internal Reconnaissance : Deployed malware to gather credentials, mapped the victim’s network topology, and used tools already present in the victim environment to scan systems. Pivot to Victim Servers Used for SWIFT Transactions : Installed reconnaissance malware and internal network monitoring tools on systems used for SWIFT to further understand how they are configured and being used. Deployed both active and passive backdoors on these systems to access segmented internal systems at a victim organization and avoid detection. Transfer funds : Deployed and executed malware to insert fraudulent SWIFT transactions and alter transaction history. Transferred funds via multiple transactions to accounts set up in other banks, usually located in separate countries to enable money laundering. Destroy Evidence : Securely deleted logs, as well as deployed and executed disk-wiping malware, to cover tracks and disrupt forensic analysis. Figure 1: APT38 Attack Lifecycle APT38 is unique in that it is not afraid to aggressively destroy evidence or victim networks as part of its operations. This attitude toward destruction is probably a result of the group trying to not only cover its tracks, but also to provide cover for money laundering operations. In addition to cyber operations, public reporting has detailed recruitment and cooperation of individuals in-country to support with the tail end of APT38’s thefts, including persons responsible for laundering funds and interacting with recipient banks of stolen funds. This adds to the complexity and necessary coordination amongst multiple components supporting APT38 operations. Despite recent efforts to curtail their activity, APT38 remains active and dangerous to financial institutions worldwide. By conservative estimates, this actor has stolen over a hundred million dollars, which would be a major return on the likely investment necessary to orchestrate these operations. Furthermore, given the sheer scale of the thefts they attempt, and their penchant for destroying targeted networks, APT38 should be considered a serious risk to the sector.
 North Korean Attacks on Banks Attributed to 'APT38' Group A report published on Wednesday by FireEye details the activities of a financially motivated threat actor believed to be operating on behalf of the North Korean government. The group, tracked by FireEye as APT38, focuses on targeting financial institutions, and the company’s researchers estimate that it has stolen at least a hundred million dollars from banks worldwide. It’s believed that the group has attempted to steal over $1.1 billion. Much of the North Korea-linked cyber activity has been attributed to the notorious Lazarus, but cybersecurity firms have begun to realize that, similar to other countries, there are actually several groups that appear to be launching attacks on behalf of the government. The fact that their tools, techniques and infrastructure often overlap makes it difficult to accurately attribute an operation to a certain group. FireEye noted that there are many similarities between APT38 and attacks launched by other North Korea-linked groups, including Lazarus and the activity it tracks as TEMP.Hermit. However, it believes APT38’s tools and its tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) are distinct enough for it to be tracked separately. Some other security firms have also noticed that the financially motivated attacks linked to Lazarus may have actually been carried out by a subgroup of Lazarus. Kaspersky has tracked this subgroup as Bluenoroff, while CrowdStrike has dubbed it Stardust Chollima. CrowdStrike has been tracking a total of four subgroups, which it has named Stardust Chollima, Silent Chollima, Labyrinth Chollima and Ricochet Chollima. According to FireEye, APT38 has been active since at least 2014 and it has been observed targeting over 16 organizations across 11 countries – researchers believe the actual number of targets may be higher. Several of these attacks made headlines in the past years and the researchers who analyzed them reported seeing significant similarities to Lazarus campaigns. However, FireEye says the attacks were actually carried out by APT38. The attacks, many of which targeted the SWIFT banking system, were aimed, among others, at Vietnam’s TP Bank in 2015, Bangladesh’s central bank in 2016, Taiwan’s Far Eastern International in 2017, Bancomext in Mexico in 2018, and Banco de Chile also in 2018. “Attribution to both the ‘Lazarus’ group and TEMP.Hermit was made with varying levels of confidence primarily based on similarities in malware being leveraged in identified operations,” FireEye said in its report on APT38. “Over time these malware similarities diverged, as did targeting, intended outcomes, and TTPs, almost certainly indicating that TEMP.Hermit activity is made up of multiple operational groups primarily linked together with shared malware development resources and North Korean state sponsorship.” FireEye believes that several other attacks that made the news – involving banks in Africa, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Ecuador, and India – may have also been carried out by APT38 based on timing, location, malware, general TTPs and the fact that they targeted SWIFT systems. Unlike other North Korean threat groups, APT38’s attacks are almost exclusively cyber heists whose likely goal is to raise money for the regime. On the other hand, unlike typical cybercrime operations, APT38’s campaigns are more similar to espionage. “APT38 executes sophisticated bank heists typically featuring long planning, extended periods of access to compromised victim environments preceding any attempts to steal money, fluency across mixed operating system environments, the use of custom developed tools, and a constant effort to thwart investigations capped with a willingness to completely destroy compromised machines afterwards,” FireEye said. Experts believe APT38 was created by North Korea as a result of the sanctions imposed on the country. The group was first spotted in February 2014, roughly one year after the UN blocked the regime from making bulk cash transfers and restricting its ties to international banking systems. As more and more sanctions were imposed on North Korea in the following years, APT38 escalated its activities and the frequency of attacks increased. FireEye has warned that APT38 continues to be active, even after the United States named and charged an alleged North Korean hacker who is said to have been involved in the development of Lazarus tools. Related: U.S. Links North Korean Government to ATM Hacks Related: NKorea Said to Have Stolen a Fortune in Online Bank Heists (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Eduard Kovacs (@EduardKovacs) is a contributing editor at SecurityWeek. He worked as a high school IT teacher for two years before starting a career in journalism as Softpedia’s security news reporter. Eduard holds a bachelor’s degree in industrial informatics and a master’s degree in computer techniques applied in electrical engineering.Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Sauter Quickly Patches Flaw in Building Automation SoftwareRadisson Hotel Group Hit by Data BreachNew Bill Proposes Prison for Execs Misusing Consumer DataUSB Drives Deliver Dangerous Malware to Industrial Facilities: HoneywellBluetooth Chip Flaws Expose Enterprises to Remote Attacks Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Fraud & Identity Theft Virus & Malware Cybercrime
 NKorea Said to Have Stolen a Fortune in Online Bank Heists North Korea’s nuclear and missile tests have stopped, but its hacking operations to gather intelligence and raise funds for the sanction-strapped government in Pyongyang may be gathering steam. U.S. security firm FireEye raised the alarm Wednesday over a North Korean group that it says has stolen hundreds of millions of dollars by infiltrating the computer systems of banks around the world since 2014 through highly sophisticated and destructive attacks that have spanned at least 11 countries. It says the group is still operating and poses “an active global threat.” It is part of a wider pattern of malicious state-backed cyber activity that has led the Trump administration to identify North Korea — along with Russia, Iran and China — as one of the main online threats facing the United States. Last month, the Justice Department charged a North Korean hacker said to have conspired in devastating cyberattacks, including an $81 million heist of Bangladesh’s central bank and the WannaCry virus that crippled parts of Britain’s National Health Service. On Tuesday, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security warned of the use of malware by Hidden Cobra, the U.S. government’s byword for North Korea hackers, in fraudulent ATM cash withdrawals from banks in Asia and Africa. It said that Hidden Cobra was behind the theft of tens of millions of dollars from teller machines in the past two years. In one incident this year, cash had been simultaneously withdrawn from ATMs in 23 different countries, it said. North Korea, which prohibits access to the world wide web for virtually all its people, has previously denied involvement in cyberattacks, and attribution for such attacks is rarely made with absolute certainty. It is typically based on technical indicators such as the Internet Protocol addresses that identify computers and characteristics of the coding used in malware, which is the software a hacker may use to damage or disable computers. But other cybersecurity experts tell The Associated Press that they also see continued signs that North Korea’s authoritarian government, which has a long track record of criminality to raise cash, is conducting malign activity online. That activity includes targeting of financial institutions and crypto-currency-related organizations, as well as spying on its adversaries, despite the easing of tensions between Pyongyang and Washington. “The reality is they are starved for cash and are continuing to try and generate revenue, at least until sanctions are diminished,” said Adam Meyers, vice president of intelligence at CrowdStrike. “At the same time, they won’t abate in intelligence collection operations, as they continue to negotiate and test the international community’s resolve and test what the boundaries are.” CrowdStrike says it has detected continuing North Korean cyber intrusions in the past two months, including the use of a known malware against a potentially broad set of targets in South Korea, and a new variant of malware against users of mobile devices that use a Linux-based operating system. This activity has been taking place against the backdrop of a dramatic diplomatic shift as Kim Jong Un has opened up to the world. He has held summits with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and with President Donald Trump, who hopes to persuade Kim to relinquish the nuclear weapons that pose a potential threat to the U.S. homeland. Tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula have dropped and fears of war with the U.S. have ebbed. Trump this weekend will dispatch his top diplomat, Mike Pompeo, to Pyongyang for the fourth time this year to make progress on denuclearization. But North Korea has yet to take concrete steps to give up its nuclear arsenal, so there’s been no let-up in sanctions that have been imposed to deprive it of fuel and revenue for its weapons programs, and to block it from bulk cash transfers and accessing to the international banking system. FireEye says APT38, the name it gives to the hacking group dedicated to bank theft, has emerged and stepped up its operations since February 2014 as the economic vise on North Korea has tightened in response to its nuclear and missile tests. Initial operations targeted financial institutions in Southeast Asia, where North Korea had experience in money laundering, but then expanded into other regions such as Latin America and Africa, and then extended to Europe and North America. In all, FireEye says APT38 has attempted to steal $1.1 billion, and based on the data it can confirm, has gotten away with hundreds of millions in dollars. It has used malware to insert fraudulent transactions in the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication or SWIFT system that is used to transfer money between banks. Its biggest heist to date was $81 million stolen from the central bank of Bangladesh in February 2016. The funds were wired to bank accounts established with fake identities in the Philippines. After the funds were withdrawn they were suspected to have been laundered in casinos. The Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington think tank, said in a report Wednesday that North Korea’s cyber capabilities provide an alternative means for challenging its adversaries. While Kim’s hereditary regime appears to prioritize currency generation, attacks using the SWIFT system raise concerns that North Korean hackers “may become more proficient at manipulating the data and systems that undergird the global financial system,” it says. Sandra Joyce, FireEye’s head of global intelligence, said that while APT38 is a criminal operation, it leverages the skills and technology of a state-backed espionage campaign, allowing it to infiltrate multiple banks at once and figure how to extract funds. On average, it dwells in a bank’s computer network for 155 days to learn about its systems before it tries to steal anything. And when it finally pounces, it uses aggressive malware to wreak havoc and cover its tracks. “We see this as a consistent effort, before, during and after any diplomatic efforts by the United States and the international community,” said Joyce, describing North Korea as being “undeterred” and urging the U.S. government to provide more specific threat information to financial institutions about APT38′s modus operandi. APT stands for Advanced Persistent Threat. The Silicon Valley-based company says it is aware of continuing, suspected APT38 operations against other banks. The most recent attack it is publicly attributing to APT38 was against of Chile’s biggest commercial banks, Banco de Chile, in May this year. The bank has said a hacking operation robbed it of $10 million. FireEye, which is staffed with a roster of former military and law-enforcement cyberexperts, conducted malware analysis for a criminal indictment by the Justice Department last month against Park Jin Hyok, the first time a hacker said to be from North Korea has faced U.S. criminal charges. He’s accused of conspiring in a number of devastating cyberattacks: the Bangladesh heist and other attempts to steal more than $1 billion from financial institutions around the world; the 2014 breach of Sony Pictures Entertainment; and the WannaCry ransomware virus that in 2017 infected computers in 150 countries. Related: U.S. Links North Korean Government to ATM Hacks (function() { var po = document.createElement("script"); po.type = "text/javascript"; po.async = true; po.src = "https://apis.google.com/js/plusone.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(po, s); })(); Tweet Previous Columns by Associated Press:Feds Accuse Ex-CIA Employee of Continuing Leaks From PrisonLaw Enforcement Faces Dilemma in Assessing Online ThreatsEx-Air Force Airman in New Mexico Accused of Computer FraudUS Election Integrity Depends on Security-Challenged FirmsRussian Held as Agent Studied US Groups' Cyberdefenses 2019 ICS Cyber Security Conference | Singapore [April 2019] 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference | USA [Oct. 22-25] Register an Invite to the CISO Forum at Half Moon Bay sponsored links Tags: Cyberwarfare NEWS & INDUSTRY Virus & Threats Fraud & Identity Theft Virus & Malware Cybercrime
